START THIS
MEETING AND WELCOME EVERYBODY
TO THE CITY OF ARBOR'S
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
MEETING ON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY
TWENTY FIRST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
TO ALL VIEWERS.
THIS MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST
LIVE ON CTM CABLE CHANNEL 60
AT&T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT 8:00 DOT ORG SLASH
AND TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMENT
YOU CAN CALL TOLL FREE EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT
EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO
ZERO NINE NINE AND INTERMEETING
ID NINE ONE NINE EIGHT SIX
SEVEN THREE ONE FOUR FIVE FIVE.
WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO CALL
THIS MEETING TO ORDER.
I WOULD LIKE TO START WITH ROLL
CALL.
SO KENNEDY IF YOU DON'T MIND
STARTING WITH ROLL CALL IF
KENNEDY DOES CALL YOUR NAME
COMMISSIONERS PLEASE UNMUTED
STATE YOUR NAME YOUR POSITION
AND WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM
TODAY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OK, WE ARE GOING TO DO A
ROLE HERE DAMAN I YES GOOD
AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
>> ZACH DAMAN CHAIRMAN COMING
TO YOU FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
WASHTENAW COUNTY THANK YOU.
>> VICE CHAIR KAYLA I LOVE THE
RESULTS HERE COMING TO YOU FROM
ANN MY MORE COMFORTABLE CULTURE
MY HOME MISSIONER MOSADDEQ
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON ATHU
SOLOMON ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN
LIMITED INTERNET CONNECTIVITY
SO MY APOLOGIES IN ADVANCE
MISSIONER MOSAIC I SEE THAT YOU
ARE HERE.
>> CAN YOU COUNT YOURSELF AS
PRESIDENT PLEASE?
I THINK YOU MIGHT BEYOND ME.
>> HI.
YES I'M PRESIDENT.
OH NO I'M COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ
.
OH SORRY.
ARE WE INTRODUCING OURSELVES?
I'M SORRY I JUST GOT OFF A
LANDLINE CALL.
HI, THIS IS THIS IS KATHLEEN
MOSAD COMMISSIONER AND I'M
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WALZAK AND COMMISSIONERS OUR
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS'
COMMISSIONER POSTERED
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYBODY.
ALEX GOSSAGE, COMMISSIONER FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE GOOD AFTERNOON.
COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE CALLING
IN FROM NORMALLY ANN ARBOR BUT
ST. JUDE'S HOSPITAL TODAY THE
COMMISSIONER PACKARD THIS IS
COMMISSIONER PARKER NORMALLY IN
ANN ARBOR COMING TO YOU FROM
THE NORTHERN CALIFORNIA AREA.
SO I TRAVELED THE FARTHEST TO
BE AT THE MEETING TODAY.
MR. CHAMBERS.
HELLO.
ELENA CHAMBERS, COMMISSIONER
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> YOU COMMISSIONER AM I
PRONOUNCING THE LAST NAME IN
EUROPE?
PLEASE BE U.
S US IS LORI BEWES IN ANN ARBOR
.
THANK YOU.
AND COUNCIL MEMBER CATHY, I
WOULD LIKE COLLEAGUES MEMBER
GHANZI EDWIN FROM ANN ARBOR.
>> WE ARE COMPLETE.
THANK YOU.
ROLL CALL COMPLETE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH KENNEDY NEXT
I WOULD LIKE TO OPEN IT UP TO
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT.
DO WE HAVE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT
FOR THIS MEETING?
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU DO HAVE
THREE MINUTES PER PUBLIC
COMMENT.
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT THIS
AFTERNOON KENNEDY AT THIS TIME
WE HAVE NO CALLERS ON LINE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, MOVING ON, WE HAVE THE
APPROVAL OF TODAY'S AGENDA.
ALL OF YOU SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN
THE ELECTRONIC COPY OF THE
AGENDA FOR THE MEETING TODAY
FOR ALL THE COMMISSIONERS ON
THE LINE, I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
OPEN IT UP FOR ANY AMENDMENTS
OR EDITS TO THE AGENDA AND IF
THERE ARE NONE, IS THERE A
MOTION TO THE APPROVE TO
APPROVE TODAY'S AGENDA?
IF I WOULD MAKE OK, GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU LEE.
>> I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY I
WENT OVER AND I SEE NO REASON
FOR ANY ADJUSTMENTS IF WE CAN
MOVE TO IMPROVE MINUTES
OF TODAY'S MEETING I MAKE A
MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, ROB.
IS THERE A SECOND?
I'LL CHECK IT.
OK, VERY SECONDS.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
TODAY'S COMMISSION MEETING
AGENDA PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY
AY AY AY AY AY I THANK YOU ALL
HAVE THE AGENDA FOR TODAY IS
APPROVED.
NEXT ON OUR AGENDA WE HAVE THE
APPROVAL OF THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM OUR JAN SEVENTEENTH
MEETING.
ANYBODY HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENT ON THERE OR IS THERE
EMOTION TO APPROVE THE MEETING
MINUTES FROM JAN I MOVE TO
APPROVE THE MEETING MINUTES
FROM JAN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE.
DO WE HAVE A SECOND?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES MINUTES FROM
JANUARY SEVENTEEN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I
I ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THE MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED FROM JANUARY NEXT.
I AM EXCITED TO HAVE A NEW
COMMISSION CANDIDATE
INTRODUCTION BEFORE WE GET INTO
OUR OFFICIAL PRESENTATION FOR
THE DAY KENNEDY DO WE HAVE A
CANDIDATE I CAN BUCKER ON THE
LINE IS HERE AND HE IS TO
SPEAK.
ALL RIGHT.
WONDERFUL WELCOME, SAM.
>> THE FLOOR IS YOURS, SIR.
OH SURE.
>> SURE.
HI, I'M SAM MOER.
>> I'M A THIRD.
DO I HAVE FIVE MINUTES?
DID YOU SAY OH YES.
FIVE MINUTES PLEASE.
OK I WON'T GO OVER THAT.
I'M SAM I'M A THIRD YEAR PHD
CANDIDATE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S SCHOOL
OF INFORMATION I STUDY A HUMAN
COMPUTER INTERACTION COMPUTER
SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK
SPECIFICALLY CONCERNING
INFRASTRUCTURE, AGING AND
DISABILITY ACCESSIBILITY.
AND SO I HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND.
I HAVE A CERTIFICATE IN
DISABILITY INCLUSION AND
ACCESSIBLE DESIGN.
I HAVE LIKE A DEA CERTIFICATE
FROM THE ROCK'EM SCHOOL
OF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
>> I'M ALSO A GRADUATE OF THE
ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY ACADEMY
PROGRAM AND WHICH I THOUGHT WAS
REALLY FASCINATING AND VALUABLE
IN TERMS OF MY INFRASTRUCTURE
STUDY.
>> SO THAT'S KIND OF A
BACKGROUND ON ME.
I WAS HOPING TO JOIN THE
COMMISSION AND I HAVE A COUPLE
OF I WAS JUST TRYING TO THINK
OF HOW I COULD MAYBE BE OF SOME
SERVICE OR VALUE TO THE
COMMUNITY AND SO I HAVE A
COUPLE OF IDEAS OF THINGS THAT
I WAS THINKING MAYBE I COULD DO
.
I READ THE MINUTES OF THE PAST,
MAYBE THREE OR FOUR MONTHS
OF THE COMMISSION SO I DON'T
KNOW IF I SAW ANY OF THESE ON
THERE AND MAYBE PEOPLE HAVE
DONE THIS IN THE PAST.
SO I AM SORRY IF I'M INTRUDING
UPON SOMEBODY
SAYS WORK BUT I
WAS THINKING A COUPLE OF IDEAS
THAT MAYBE I COULD WORK ON
WOULD BE LIKE INACCESSIBILITY
AUDIT OF THE GOVERNMENT
WEBSITES AND ARBOR GOVERNMENT
WEBSITES.
I DID LIKE A LITTLE PRELIMINARY
ANALYSIS OF HOW ACCESSIBLE SOME
WEBSITES ARE LIKE THE AIDE TO
GOV. DOUG IN THERE WERE JUST ON
THE FRONT PAGE TWO INSTANCES
OF MISSING TEXT FOR IMAGES.
THERE WERE A COUPLE OF CONTRAST
ISSUES.
THERE WERE ELEMENTS THAT WERE
NOT LEGIBLE TO A SCREEN READER
LIKE FOR INSTANCE THERE WAS ONE
BUTTON THAT SAID LOOK SEE
EVENTS BUT THE SEE ALL EVENTS
WAS BUILT INTO THE BUTTON SO
THERE WAS NO TEXT THAT WOULD BE
LEGIBLE TO SCREENWRITERS.
SO EFFECTIVELY NOBODY THAT WAS
USING A SCREEN READER COULD SEE
THAT THEY WERE THERE WAS A
BUTTON FOR ALL EVENTS OR HEAR
THAT RATHER.
>> SO IT WAS I THOUGHT THAT WAS
MAYBE MAYBE A GOOD PLACE TO
START WOULD JUST BE THE
ACCESSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENT
SITES.
>> BUT I WAS ALSO THINKING
MAYBE IT WOULD BE VALUABLE TO
COMPILE SOME ACCESSIBILITY
INFORMATION FOR DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES.
THIS COULD BE SOMETHING I COULD
DO THAT WOULD BE LIKE MANUALLY
ASSESSING OR ASKING FOR
COMPLIANCE OF HOW ACCESSIBLE
BUSINESS SPACES ARE.
COMPILE THAT INFORMATION INTO A
SPREADSHEET WITH MAYBE PHONE
HAVE QUESTIONS COULD ASK AHEAD
OF TIME.
I KNOW THAT FOR INSTANCE, LIKE
BEFORE THE RENOVATION I USED TO
WORK AT THE STATE THEATER AND
THAT WAS LIKE A VERY
INACCESSIBLE SPACE.
WE WOULD HAVE PEOPLE THAT JUST
WERE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE FACT
THAT WE WERE GRANDFATHERED INTO
THIS SPACE AND WE'RE WORKING
TOWARDS GETTING IT ACCESSIBLE
BUT IT WASN'T AS OF YET.
SO MAYBE HAVING A GUIDING
DOCUMENT FOR ACCESSIBLE SPACES
WOULD BE SOMETHING INTERESTING.
I KNOW THAT THERE IN SINGAPORE
FOR INSTANCE, THEY HAVE TOWN
AUDITS WHERE YOU GO AROUND TOWN
WITH VARIOUS PEOPLE.
THEY KIND OF POINT OUT
INACCESSIBLE SPACES AND I JUST
THINK THAT'S KIND OF AN
INTERESTING IDEA.
>> BUT ANYWAY, AND THEN I WAS
ALSO THINKING JUST A LAST IDEA
WOULD BE MAYBE HAVING LISTENING
SESSIONS OR SOME SORT
OF SESSIONS REQUESTING FEEDBACK
ON HOW OLDER ADULTS WITH
DISABILITY ARE AGING IN PLACE.
AGING IN PLACE IS SOMETHING
THAT MOST PEOPLE WANT TO DO I
THINK SEVENTY EIGHT PERCENT
OF PEOPLE THAT WERE POLLED BY
AARP AND WANTED TO AGE IN PLACE
A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT TO AGE IN
PLACE IN ANN ARBOR BUT JUST A
LOT OF INFRASTRUCTURE ISN'T
BUILT TO SUPPORT PEOPLE AGING
IN PLACE.
>> SO I WAS THINKING MAYBE IT
WOULD BE INTERESTING TO GET
SOME SORT OF LISTENING SESSIONS
GOING TALKING TO PEOPLE ABOUT
WHAT WOULD BE VALUABLE TO
SUPPORT YOUR YOUR DESIRED AGING
IN PLACE.
LIKE I WAS TALKING TO AN OLDER
ADULT WHO USES A WHEELCHAIR
RECENTLY ABOUT TAKING PUBLIC
TRANSIT IN THE WINTER.
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS THAT
COMPOUND AND MAKE INDEPENDENT
LIFE DIFFICULT.
>> YEAH, SO I WAS THINKING
MAYBE THOSE WOULD BE THREE
THINGS THAT I COULD MAYBE OR
ONE ONE OF THOSE I COULD TAKE
ON ONE OF THOSE THINGS AT FIRST
BUT THOSE WOULD MAYBE BE SOME
THINGS THAT MIGHT BE HELPFUL IN
SOME FORM OR FASHION.
YEAH.
SO I HOPE THAT WAS LESS THAN
FIVE MINUTES AND THANK FOR
LISTENING.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YES.
THANK YOU.
WHEREWITH WITHIN TIME SO I DO
APPRECIATE THAT AND I JUST WANT
TO NOTIFY ALL THE FULL
COMMISSION THAT YOU KNOW.
YES.
BEEN INTERVIEWED AND THINGS
OF THAT SORT AS WELL BY THE
RECRUITMENT COMMITTEE.
SO HE'S GONE THROUGH THAT
PROCESSES AND APPLICATION HAS
BEEN BEEN FULLY REVIEWED I
GUESS BECAUSE WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF MINUTES.
ARE THERE ARE THERE ONE TWO
QUESTIONS ANY COMMISSIONERS
WOULD LIKE TO ASK SAM BASED
UPON HIS INTRODUCTION TODAY?
>> PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND AGAIN
.
>> YEP.
THANK YOU.
HI, THIS IS ISHIGAKI.
EDWIN SAM,  JUST WANT TO SAY
IT WAS SO INTERESTING TO HEAR
SOME OF THE IDEAS YOU HAVE AND
YOUR SKILL SET ARE ON
ACCESSIBILITY.
SO IT'S GREAT MEETING YOU AND
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
INTERNALLY WITH TRACY BYRD
OF OUR AUTO SHOW.
I'M SURE THAT YOU'LL MEET SOON
WHO ARE FANTASTIC JUST ABOUT
SOME IDEAS WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT RECENTLY AND NEEDED
INFORMATION FOR FOLKS.
YEAH, IT SOUNDS GREAT AND I
WOULD LOVE TO MAKE A CONNECTION
EITHER WAY SO I'LL BE REACHING
OUT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND YEAH, IF THERE'S ANYTHING
IN PROGRESS THAT IT I WOULD ANY
KIND OF SPACE WHERE
CONVERSATIONS ARE ALREADY BEING
HAND AND MY MIGHT BE OF MORE
SERVICE THERE I MEAN I WOULD
LOVE TO JUST BE ANY KIND
OF SMALL COG IN A LARGER SYSTEM
OF OF SUPPORT AND AID SO YEAH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEP.
I'LL REACH OUT.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
ONE MORE MINUTE ON THIS SUBJECT
MATTER IS THERE ANY OK GO AHEAD
MEMBER SOLOMON HI SAM.
>> NICE TO MEET YOU.
I THINK MY QUESTION WAS JUST
ABOUT THE THREE YEAR TERM
OF THE COMMISSIONER AND YOUR
DEGREE PROGRAM POTENTIALLY
BEING LESS SO JUST WANTED TO
GET A SENSE OF WHERE YOU'RE AT
.
YEAH, I THINK I'M I'M IN THE MY
JUST BEGINNING MY THIRD YEAR
OF THE PROGRAM AND I'VE KIND
OF ALWAYS LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
FOR PROBABLY I DON'T KNOW
ELEVEN OR TWELVE YEARS NOW.
SO I IMAGINE MYSELF BEING IN
ANN ARBOR BEYOND THE PROGRAM
AND ALSO YEAH I THINK I'LL BE
IN THE PROGRAM FOR ANOTHER
THREE YEARS I BELIEVE SO YEAH
BECAUSE IT'S A PHD PROGRAM.
>> YEAH.
PACKARD I JUST WANTED TO SAY
THAT I APPRECIATE WHAT YOU'RE
DOING WITH YOUR EDUCATION AND
YOUR BACKGROUND AND JOINING US
TODAY AND YOUR WELCOME TO
BECAUSE MY INFORMATION IS
ACCESSIBLE AND WHAT INSPIRED
YOU TO GO INTO YOUR FIELD THAT
YOU'RE YEAH.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR QUESTION.
YEAH I DON'T KNOW I GUESS I'VE
JUST ALWAYS BEEN INTERESTED IN
AGING AND ACCESSIBILITY I THINK
BECAUSE I HAVE LIKE A FONDNESS
AND CLOSE RELATIONSHIP WITH MY
GRANDPARENTS AND PEOPLE WITHIN
THEIR SENIOR COMMUNITY AND IT'S
I FEEL LIKE A LOT OF LITERATURE
IS DEFICIT BASED IN MY GIVEN
SPACE.
HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTION IS
OFTEN DEFICIT BASED.
IT'S OFTEN BIOMEDICAL ISED
WHICH IS TO SAY THERE'S LIKE A
TECHNO SOLUTION TO MEDICAL
ISSUES OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND SO I KIND OF WANTED TO PUSH
BACK ON THAT READING AND AND
MORE SUPPORT LIKE AGENCY IN
BOTH OLDER ADULTS AND IN THE
DISABILITY ACCESSIBILITY SPACE.
SO THAT WAS JUST KIND OF A I
GUESS BROUGHT ME TO IT AND ALSO
WORKING AT THE STATE THEATER
AND SEEING PEOPLE STRUGGLE UP
DOWN THE STAIRS AND JUST LIKE
KNOWING THAT THERE'S SO MUCH
WORK TO BE DONE IN A LOT
OF AREAS.
>> YEAH.
ANYWAY THANK YOU.
WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH SAM FOR YOUR
INTRODUCTION AND FOR YOUR
GRACIOUS ANSWERS TO THE FULL
COMMISSION'S QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT WE'RE GOING TO GO
AHEAD AND MOVE ON TO THE
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
OF OUR AGENDA TODAY AND I AM
EXTREMELY, EXTREMELY GRATEFUL
TO INTRODUCE THE OFFICE OF THE
OFFICE OF DISABILITY
INTEGRATION COORDINATION.
MR. GILLIAMS FROM FEMA.
MR. GILLIAMS, WE ARE EXTREMELY,
EXTREMELY DELIGHTED TO HAVE
YOU.
WE APPRECIATE YOU TAKING TIME
AND I'M DELIGHTED THAT YOU ARE
HERE TO PRESENT TO US TODAY.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO WITH THAT I
TURN THE FLOOR OVER TO MR.
THANK THANK YOU, JACK.MA.
>> I AM DELIGHTED TO SEE ALL
OF YOU.
HAPPY NEW YEAR.
I'M GOING TO USE THE FIRST
THREE MONTHS OF THE YEAR TO SEE
HAPPY NEW YEAR TO EVERYBODY
I'VE SEEN FOR THE FIRST TIME.
BUT I'M ALSO HAPPY BECAUSE ANY
TIME WE CAN GET LOCAL LEADERS
AND COMPONENTS OF THE
OF GOVERNMENTAL OR STAKEHOLDER
STRUCTURE TO PAY ATTENTION TO A
DISASTER BEFORE IT HAPPENS IN
YOUR AREA, THAT'S A GOOD THING
BECAUSE RESILIENCE BEGINS
BEFORE THE DISASTER.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO PROVE LATER.
RIGHT.
SO WE TRY TO ENCOURAGE MORE
COMMUNITIES AT THIS LEVEL TO DO
THAT.
SO I'M HAPPY THAT YOU'RE DOING
A GREAT EXAMPLE THAT YOU'RE
THAT.
MODELING FOR OTHER COMMUNITIES.
A GREAT EXAMPLE THAT YOU'RE
I'VE GOT SOME SLICERS HERE WITH
MODELING FOR OTHER COMMUNITIES.
YOU SO LET ME SEE IF I CAN
I'VE GOT SOME SLICERS HERE WITH
BRING MY SLIDES.
YOU SO LET ME SEE IF I CAN
THERE IT IS
AND IF YOU'LL LET
ME KNOW WHEN YOU CAN SEE THAT
ABSOLUTELY ALL RIGHT.
SO I'LL JUST START WITH A
LITTLE BIT OF A BIO NOT TO GET
TOO MUCH TO IT EXCEPT IT'S
RELEVANT TO THE WORK THAT I DO.
I JOINED THE SIXTY MILLION
STRONG ARM OF THE DISABILITY
COMMUNITY BACK IN 2002 WHILE
SERVING IN THE MARINE CORPS.
I SUFFERED A SPINAL CORD
INJURY, TOOK A FEW YEARS TO
REHABILITATE AND AMBULATE LIFE
IN A WHEELCHAIR.
PROUD TO BE A PART OF THIS
COMMUNITY AND ALL THAT COMES
WITH THE ADVOCACY AND THE VOICE
THAT THAT COMES WITH HAVING
THIS IDENTITY THAT'S IMPORTANT
TO MY ROLE BECAUSE I AM NOW THE
DISABILITY
COORDINATOR FOR FEMA
AND THAT ROLE WAS ESTABLISHED
AFTER HURRICANE KATRINA AND AS
YOU PROBABLY KNOW A LOT
OF PEOPLE DIED NOT BECAUSE
OF MOTHER NATURE OR THE
DISASTER BUT BECAUSE OF THE
HUMAN MADE ASPECTS OF THE
DISASTER THAT FOUND A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE OLDER OR AND
OR WITH DISABILITIES ABANDONED
IN MANY WAYS THIS IS BACK IN
TWO THOUSAND FIVE.
I HAPPENED TO BE THREE YEARS
POST INJURY WHEN THAT HAPPENED.
I WAS IN SAN DIEGO WHEN THE
WILDFIRES BURNED THROUGH RANCHO
PETOSKEY US AND I MADE THE
DECISION NOT TO EVACUATE
BECAUSE OF WHAT I SAW A MONTH
EARLIER IN LOUISIANA.
SO I BRING THAT EXPERIENCE TO A
JOB THAT THAT WAS ESTABLISHED A
YEAR LATER.
I'M THE FOURTH DISABILITY
COORDINATOR FROM THE FOURTH
PERSON THIS ROLE BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY I BRING THE
EXPERIENCE OF BEING A SURVIVOR,
BEING SOMEBODY WHO KNOWS WHAT
IT'S LIKE FRANKLY TO NOT TRUST
THE GOVERNMENT, TO HEAR THE
MESSAGING, TO DOUBT WHAT I'M
HEARING AND TO MAKE A DECISION
THAT PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN
FATAL HAD THE WINDS TURN
LITERALLY TURNED.
AND I WAS IN SAN DIEGO SO AND
IT'S SUCH THE CASE THAT WHEN I
HEARD ABOUT THE JOB I WAS
SURPRISED THAT IT HAD BEEN
AROUND FOR SO LONG BECAUSE I
NEVER HEARD OF A DISABILITY
COORDINATOR IN FEMA.
YOU KNOW, DESPITE THE FACT THAT
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN DISASTERS
IN HURRICANE HARVEY, MARIA AS A
STAKEHOLDER NOT ON THE
GOVERNMENT SIDE BUT I WAS
INVOLVED IN THIS WORK AND I
NEVER HEARD OF A DISABILITY
COORDINATOR.
SO MY FIRST PRIORITY WAS TO
MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE KNOW WHAT
THE DISABILITY COORDINATOR IS,
WHAT THE OFFICE OF DISABILITY
INTEGRATION AND COORDINATION
DOES, WHICH IS WHILE WE RESPOND
TO DISASTERS, I HOPE THAT WE'RE
DOING MORE WORK ON THE STEADY
STATE SIDE BEFORE DISASTER AND
HELPING COMMUNITIES BE MORE
RESILIENT.
SO THERE IS A THERE IS A LAW
THAT CONGRESS PASSED THAT
ESTABLISHED EARLIER THIS WEEK
COORDINATOR AND FROM THERE
MISSION HAS EVOLVED QUITE A BIT
AND THIS IS JUST A ROLL UP MY
LITTLE PROFILE WINDOW HERE SO I
CAN SEE THE WHOLE THING.
THIS MAP GIVES YOU SOME IDEA
OF OF HOW THE MISSION HAS
EVOLVED AND WHILE THIS MAY NOT
BE RELEVANT TO EVERY STATE
SPECIFICALLY, IT DOES GIVE YOU
A SENSE OF HOW IT IS EVOLVED
GIVEN THE CHALLENGES THAT WE'VE
SEEN OVER THE YEARS SINCE 2005,
THE SOUTHWEST IS NOTORIOUS FOR
HAVING HURRICANES AND TORNADOES
WREAK HAVOC IN THE AREA YEAR
AFTER YEAR AFTER YEAR AND THEN
YOU'VE HAD THOSE SORT OF ONE
OFF DISASTERS THE EAST
PALESTINE TRAIN CRASH WAS AN
EXAMPLE LAST YEAR THAT BECAME
ONE THAT WE GOT TIED UP AND UP
IN PENNSYLVANIA AND OHIO NOT
SURE IF THE MICHIGAN AREA HAS
HAD MANY PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE
LOOKED AT US BUT I KNOW THAT
CHICAGO AREA AND THAT THAT PART
OF THE COUNTRY JUST HAD A FEW
FLOODS AND TORNADOES ARE
POSSIBLE JUST ABOUT ANYWHERE.
BUT THIS IS HOW IT'S EVOLVED
OVER THE YEARS.
IT WENT FROM BEING THIS SORT
OF MODEL WHERE WE HAVE A WHOLE
LOT OF PEOPLE GO TO A DISASTER
TO ONE WHERE WE TRY TO EMBED
THE COMPETENCY OF DISABILITY
INTEGRATION COMPETENCY IN
OFFICES THAT AREN'T NECESSARILY
ESTABLISHED FOR DISABILITY
FOCUS BUT THEY NEED THAT AS
PART OF THEIR PROGRAM AND SO
ON.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IN THE
PRESENTATION WITH SOME OF THE
THINGS WE'RE DOING.
BUT AS YOU CAN SEE IT WENT FROM
A MORE OF AN ADVOCACY MODEL TO
ONE WHERE WE LOOK AT COMPLIANCE
MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE AND
WE'LL ROLL DOWN THE SCREEN HERE
JUST IN CASE ANYBODY RAISES
YOUR HAND SO I CAN SEE YOU A
LOT OF WHAT GOT ME HERE I GOT
HERE ON AUGUST 20TH, AUGUST
14TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND I SPENT A
LOT OF TIME TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE WE'VE BEEN AS
AN OFFICE AS AN AGENCY WHERE
THE LESSONS TO BE LEARNED WERE
THAT I NEEDED TO PRIORITIZE AS
A NEW DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE
AND SO I RELY A LOT ON THE
LITERATURE TO FIGURE WHERE THE
PROBLEMS WERE COMING UP OVER
AND OVER AGAIN.
I ALSO WENT TO A FEW DISASTERS.
>> THESE WERE THE THE BIG SIX
FROM LAST YEAR AND THE EARLY
PART OF THIS YEAR ACTUALLY THE
YEAR BEFORE AND THEN LAST YEAR
WE HAVE HAD ANY DISASTERS THIS
YEAR KNOCK ON WOOD BUT WE START
THE YEAR WITH A MAJOR TORNADO
IN ALABAMA AND THEN WE ENDED
IN TENNESSEE.
THE YEAR WITH A MAJOR TORNADO
WHAT I DO IS I GO INTO A
IN TENNESSEE.
DISASTER AREA.
WHAT I DO IS I GO INTO A
THE QUESTIONS I ASK HAVE TO DO
DISASTER AREA.
WITH ARE WE SETTING UP
THE QUESTIONS I ASK HAVE TO DO
EMERGENCY SHELTERS FOR PEOPLE
WITH ARE WE SETTING UP
WITH DISABILITIES AND NOT JUST
EMERGENCY SHELTERS FOR PEOPLE
MOBILITY, RIGHT.
WITH DISABILITIES AND NOT JUST
ARE WE LOOKING AT PEOPLE WHO
MOBILITY, RIGHT.
ARE DEAF?
ARE WE LOOKING AT PEOPLE WHO
ARE BLIND OR HAVE LOW VISION?
ARE WE LOOKING AT PARENTS WHO
HAVE CHILDREN WITH AUTISM?
ARE WE LOOKING AT ADULT KIDS?
TAKE CARE OF PARENTS WITH
DEMENTIA?
WE'RE LOOKING AT ALL ASPECTS
OF DISABILITY BECAUSE A LOT
OF TIMES YOU SEE ACCESSIBILITY.
DO YOU THINK ABOUT A WHEELCHAIR
AND THAT'S IT.
>> WE'RE NOT THINKING ABOUT
ENVIRONMENTAL ACCESSIBILITY
WHICH REALLY SHOULD HAVE
NOTHING TO DO WITH DISABILITY.
IT'S MAKING IT ACCESSIBLE FOR
EVERYBODY.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THAT'S NOT
OFTEN THE CASE.
SO I WENT INTO WHAT ARE LARGELY
TORNADOES AND HURRICANES AND
AGAIN THERE WAS A TRAIN
DERAILMENT WITH AN EYE TOWARD
LOOKING AT THE ENTIRE ENTIRE
ECOSYSTEM AND WAYS THAT PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES WERE GOING TO
BE DISADVANTAGED NOT BECAUSE
OF A DISASTER BUT BECAUSE THEY
HAVE A DISABILITY OR WHAT WE
CONSIDER AN ACCESS AND
FUNCTIONAL NEED WHICH CAN
MIRROR DISABILITY SUCH AS A
WOMAN WHO'S PREGNANT AND IN A
CRISIS SITUATION, SOMEBODY WHO
IS OLDER, NOT DISABLED WITHIN
THEIR AGE BECOMES A BARRIER
PEOPLE OF OF LARGER OR SMALLER
STATURE.
SO WE'RE LOOKING TO MAKE THIS
AS INCLUSIVE AS POSSIBLE SO
THAT PEOPLE DON'T CONSIDER THIS
DISABILITY DESIGN OR DISABILITY
PROCESS OR PLANS THAT THIS IS
REALLY ABOUT MAKING SURE
EVERYBODY CAN SURVIVE A
DISASTER REGARDLESS OF THEIR
HOW THEY SHOW UP AND MANY
OF THE LESSONS LEARNED CAME
BACK TO THESE FOURTEEN AREAS I
HER THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER TALK
ABOUT BEING A PHD STUDENT.
I'M A DOCTORAL STUDENT AND MY
DISSERTATION NEXT WEEK A LOT
OF WHAT WE DO IS WE LOOK AT
WHAT THEMES RESONATE WERE THE
THEMES THAT KEEP COMING UP IN
THE DATA AND AS I LOOK THROUGH
THE LITERATURE AND WENT TO
DIFFERENT DISASTER AREAS, THESE
14 AREAS KEPT COMING UP AS THE
AREAS WHERE THINGS BEGIN TO
BREAK DOWN FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH ALL
FOUR OF 14 BECAUSE SOME ARE
OBVIOUS BUT THE FIRST ONE IS
INCLUSION AND PLANNING.
IT WAS SO HARD TO GO TO
TENNESSEE AND AND AND NOT TO
PUT A STATE ON BLAST BUT I WENT
INTO TENNESSEE WITH THE
QUESTION BEING WHERE'S YOUR
DISABILITY WAS A DISASTER PLAN
AND WHO DID YOU TALK TO ABOUT
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO?
YOU KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
TORNADOES.
THAT'S NOT IT'S NOT OUT OF THE
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT BEYOND THE
REALM OF POSSIBILITY.
BUT WHAT WAS YOUR PLAN FOR
PEOPLE FOR WHEN FOR EXAMPLE,
WHEN THE POWER GOES OUT WE KNOW
WE'VE GOT ABOUT FIFTEEN HUNDRED
PEOPLE ON DIALYSIS AND YOU KNOW
ALL THESE PEOPLE THAT DEPEND ON
POWER.
WHAT COMMUNICATION PLANTS, ALL
THOSE THINGS BECOME OBVIOUS
GAPS IN PREPAREDNESS.
SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IN
PLACES LIKE MICHIGAN WHERE YOUR
FOLKS ON THIS ISSUE THE FIRST
QUESTION YOU ASK YOUR STATE
REPRESENTATIVES HOW ARE YOU
INCLUDING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND DISASTER
PLANNING AND THEN YOU CAN GO
THROUGH ALERTS AND WARNINGS ARE
YOUR SIZE FIVE WE COMPLIANT IF
YOU'RE DEAF OR USE A SCREEN
READER AM I GOING TO GET THE
INFORMATION?
ONE THING I WOULD STOP ON A LOT
IF YOUR GOVERNOR IS ON
TELEVISION ADDRESSING THE
PUBLIC WITHOUT SOMEONE DOING
ASL, THE FIRST INEQUITY HAS
ALREADY OCCURRED.
THE FIRST DOMINO HAS FALLEN
RIGHT.
SO WE'RE LEAVING OUT A LOT
OF PEOPLE AND THEN WE COULD GO
THROUGH ALL THE OTHERS ARE PART
OF TENNESSEE ACCESS OF DRINKING
WATER WHEN THEY SET UP
DISTRIBUTION SITES, PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T PHYSICALLY GET THERE IS
THERE ANYBODY BRINGING WATER TO
THOSE PEOPLE AND THINGS LIKE
THAT?
AND THEN FINALLY, WHAT ARE THE
CHANCES THAT THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DISABILITIES CAN RETURN TO
THEIR PRE DISASTER INDEPENDENCE
AND AUTONOMY AND EVEN IF THEY
HAVE TO MOVE TO A DIFFERENT
HOME, ARE WE MAKING WAYS FOR
THEM TO GET BACK TO THAT POINT
?
SO IN HOUSING IS OFTENTIMES A
BIG BEAR TO THAT.
SO THESE ARE THE FORTUNATE
AREAS THAT WE FOCUS ON GOING
INTO WHAT A DISASTER WHAT WE
TRY TO PROACTIVELY HAVE THESE
BE THE AREAS THAT STATES AND
COUNTIES FOCUS ON BEFORE
DISASTER SO WE DON'T SEE THEM
HAPPEN IF WE CAN AVOID IT AND
I'LL JUST GIVE YOU A CASE STUDY
WHAT I ACTUALLY DO RIGHT.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE THAT PRETTY
INNOCUOUS TO MOST PEOPLE.
THIS IS A HANDWASHING STATION
IF YOU'RE A PERSON WITH THE
DISABILITY WHO USES A
WHEELCHAIR, MAYBE YOU'RE
SOMEBODY WHO IS YOU KNOW, USES
A CATHETER OR YOU HAVE TO
ADMINISTER SOME TYPE
OF INJECTIONS OF SOME TYPE.
RIGHT.
HAVING CLEAN HANDS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT.
IT'S NOT JUST A CONVENIENCE.
IT'S A MATTER OF SAFETY.
IT'S A MATTER OF BEING ABLE TO
GET THROUGH BEING IN AN
EMERGENCY SHELTER WITHOUT
INCURRING ANOTHER ILLNESS.
>> AND SO WHEN I LOOKED AT THIS
HANDWASHING STATION I POINTED
OUT TO THOSE WHO LOGISTICALLY
BRING THESE THINGS IN THAT IF
THERE IS AN ALTERNATIVE WE
OUGHT TO THINK ABOUT THAT WE
WANT EVERYBODY TO BE ABLE
ACCESS CLEAN WATER AND THIS IS
A VERY SMALL THING TO SOME
PEOPLE.
BUT FOR ME IT WAS A BIG DEAL
BECAUSE IT WAS DURING COLD IT
RIGHT.
AND SO WE HAD A LOT OF YOU
KNOW, WE WERE TOLD WASH YOUR
HANDS OR YOU COULD DIE.
AND IN THIS CASE WE DIDN'T HAVE
A HAND WASHING STATION WHERE
EVERYBODY COULD ACCESS IT.
SO I ACTUALLY LOCATED THE TYPE
OF HAND WASHING STATION THAT
THEY SHOULD THINK ABOUT GETTING
AN AND MADE THAT CLEAR TO
LOGISTICS THAT THIS IS ONE WAY
WE CAN ELIMINATE ONE BARRIER TO
SAFELY GETTING THROUGH THE
DISASTER EXPERIENCE.
AND THIS IS A SMALL ONE.
I MEAN THEY GET MUCH BIGGER BUT
THIS IS AN EASILY YOU CAN
EASILY SEE HOW IT'S IMPORTANT
TO HAVE THE TYPE OF EYES THAT
WE BRING TO THESE EXPERIENCES
THAT MOST PEOPLE WILL MISS.
RIGHT.
AND THERE'S THE THERE'S THE
HAND THE HAND CRANK THAT TURNS
ON THE WATER SO YOU DON'T NEED
TO PRESS ON WITH YOUR FOOT.
HERE'S AN OBVIOUS ONE.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE
?
I REALLY THOUGHT I WAS BEING
PARKED RIGHT THERE WAS A SHOW
ON MTV CALLED AND I THOUGHT
THERE IS NO WAY THIS IS REAL.
RIGHT.
AND I WON'T TELL YOU WHERE THIS
WAS BUT WHEN I SAW THIS I
THOUGHT THIS REALLY SENDS THE
WRONG SIGNAL TO PEOPLE.
I'M SOMEBODY WHO THEY'RE
PROBABLY GOING TO TRY TO
ACCOMMODATE.
BUT AT THE SHELTER THERE WERE
SEVEN HUNDRED PEOPLE AND I SAW
WITH MY OWN EYES ABOUT TWENTY
IN WHEELCHAIRS AND I JUST
THOUGHT THIS CAN'T HAPPEN.
RIGHT.
AND SO IN THIS CASE THOUGH THE
PROBLEM WASN'T THAT THERE WAS
JUST ONE BATHROOM.
THERE WAS ACTUALLY AN
ACCESSIBLE BATHROOM BUT THE
SIGN LED ME TO BELIEVE THAT
THIS IS WHERE I WAS BEING
ENCOURAGED TO LOOK.
AND IF YOU LOOKED AT THE HOW
STEEP THE STAIRS ARE WITH NO
HANDRAILS AGAIN ACCESS A
FUNCTIONAL NEED EVEN FOR A
PREGNANT MOM OR AN OLDER
PERSON, THIS COULD BE VERY
DANGEROUS.
AND SO WE WE ASKED
THE SHELTER
MANAGER TO LOOK AT THE
ENVIRONMENT A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY, LOOK FOR SIGNS SO
YOU GUIDE PEOPLE INTO THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
BUT HAVING THAT UNIVERSAL
SYMBOL OF ACCESS ON THERE IS IS
WHY THIS WAS PROBLEMATIC
BECAUSE IT LED ME TO BELIEVE
THIS WAS THE ONLY OPTION SO
THIS WAS ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE
TYPE OF WORK THAT I DO IN THESE
IN THESE AREAS.
RIGHT.
AND THAT'S THAT'S WHAT THE SIGN
LOOKED LIKE.
SO THEY DID FIX THAT AND
UNFORTUNATELY THERE WAS A
BATHROOM THERE WHERE PEOPLE
COULD ACCESS IT AND SO WE
WEREN'T STUCK WITH THAT.
THIS IS REALLY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE THIS TELLS ME IF YOU
HAVE A A DISASTER IN ANN ARBOR
I LOOK AT SEVERAL DATA SETS TO
DETERMINE WHAT THE DISABILITY
PROFILE IS OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE LIKELY IN THAT DISASTER BY
COUNTY.
WE START WITH THE U.S. CENSUS.
OF COURSE IT'S DATED DATA,
IT'S EVERY TEN YEARS SO WE
DON'T GO BY ONE DATA SET BUT WE
DO GET SORT OF AN APPROXIMATION
OF HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE IN THAT
IN THAT AREA.
WE ALSO LOOK AT THE SVI THESE
SOCIAL VULNERABILITY INDEX
WHICH GIVES US AN IDEA
OF WHETHER THERE'S A SOCIAL
ECONOMIC DIMENSION TO THE
DISASTER POPULATION.
IS IT A RURAL AREA OR ARE THEY
OLDER?
DO THEY SKEW TOWARD PEOPLE
OF COLOR IN A IN A IN A RURAL
AREA SOCIO ECONOMIC ALL THOSE
THINGS FACTOR IN BUT INPOWER
DATA IS ALSO IMPORTANT.
I'LL SHOW YOU AN EXAMPLE.
THE NEXT SLIDE HARD DATA WHICH
IS MAINTAINED BY HHS TELLS US
HOW MANY PEOPLE DURING A POWER
OUTAGE ARE GOING TO BE IMPACTED
AND PROBABLY HAVE THEIR LIVES
IN DANGER IN THE EVENT.
AND THEN LASTLY THE DISABILITY
APPLICATIONS THESE ARE
INDIVIDUAL ASSISTANCE
APPLICATIONS.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO APPLY FOR
RESOURCES AND IDENTIFY AS
DISABLED.
SO WE GET ALL THAT INFORMATION
AND SORT OF TRIANGULATE A
PICTURE OF WHAT THE DISABILITY
CHARACTERISTICS ARE IN A GIVEN
COUNTY THAT'S BEEN IMPACTED AND
WE RELY ON A CONFIRMATORY DATA.
THIS IS WHERE YOU ALL MAY COME
IN.
WE TALK TO ANYBODY ON THE
GROUND.
WE LOOK IN MEDIA, WE TALK TO
STAKEHOLDERS, ANYBODY WHO CAN
HELP US CONFIRM WHAT WE THINK
WE'RE SEEING THIS BECAME
IMPORTANT TO TENNESSEE BECAUSE
THE DATA TOLD US THAT THE
DISABILITY POPULATION WAS
YOUNGER, THAT WE COULDN'T
FIGURE OUT WHY THEY WERE SO
YOUNG WAS BECAUSE IT WAS A
MILITARY VETERAN COMMUNITY IN A
LOT OF MILITARY VETERANS ARE
YOUNGER AND DISABLED AND SO
KNOWING THAT WE COULD ADJUST
OUR STRATEGY FOR HOW WE
COMMUNICATE AROUND THAT
CHARACTERISTIC OF THE DATA SO
WE LOOK AT THAT CONFIRMATORY
DATA TO GIVE MORE DIMENSION TO
WHAT WE THINK WE KNOW ABOUT A
GIVEN AREA.
AND THEN HERE'S AN EXAMPLE
OF HOW WE ACTUALLY PUT THAT TO
WORK FOR US.
WE KNEW THAT THERE WERE POWER
OUTAGES.
WE KNEW THAT THERE WERE ABOUT
ALMOST FIFTEEN HUNDRED PEOPLE
WHO WERE ELECTRICITY DEPENDENT
AND SO WE WHEN WE SENT OUT OUR
DISASTER SURVIVOR ASSISTANCE
TEAMS TO CANVASS THE
NEIGHBORHOODS, WE WANTED THEM
TO BE INTENTIONAL ABOUT
IDENTIFYING PEOPLE WHO WERE
LIKELY POWER DEPENDENT,
DIALYSIS, OXYGEN DEPENDENT ALL
THE OTHER WAYS THIS IT COULD BE
I USE A POWER ASSIST WHEELCHAIR
SO MY CHAIR IS POWER DEPENDENT.
IF IT DIES A CHAIR BECOMES 50
POUNDS HEAVIER.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF WHERE
WE TRY TO BE A LITTLE BIT MORE
INTENTIONAL AND GO BEYOND THE
DATA SO THAT WE COULD ACTUALLY
GET PEOPLE CONNECTED TO
RECOVERY A LOT FASTER.
AND THIS JUST GIVES YOU AN IDEA
OF THE SORT OF FRAMEWORK THAT
THAT I TRY TO EDUCATE ON THAT
TAKES THE FOCUS OFF OF A
DIAGNOSIS OR HOW PEOPLE SHOW AS
INDIVIDUALS AND WE PUT THE
FOCUS ON THE ENVIRONMENT.
ARE WE LOOKING AT COMMUNICATION
FOR EVERYBODY?
ARE WE LOOKING AT HOW EVERYBODY
MAINTAINS IF HOSPITALS WERE
DAMAGED?
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE MORE
RELIANT ON THE HOSPITAL THAN
OTHERS AS WAS THE CASE IN
ROLLING FORK, MISSISSIPPI.
THAT ENTIRE HOSPITAL WAS WIPED
OUT SO WE HAD TO LOOK AT THAT
AS A A RISK FACTOR FOR PEOPLE
EVEN IF THEIR HOMES WERE
DAMAGED, IF THE HOSPITALS WIPED
OUT AND YOU'RE IN A RURAL AREA
THAT'S A PROBLEM.
INDEPENDENTS WE NEED WE WANT
PEOPLE TO BE AS INDEPENDENT AS
THEY NEED TO BE SO THAT THEY
CAN MAKE DECISIONS FOR
THEMSELVES AND MAKING SURE THAT
WE HAVE ACCESSIBLE SHELTERS IS
ONE WAY TO DO THAT MAKING SURE
THAT WE HAVE ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION, YOU KNOW,
GIVING PEOPLE THE ABILITY TO
ADVOCATE FOR THEMSELVES IS A
BIG PART OF THAT IN A SUPPORT
AND SAFETY OF COURSE IS THAT'S
YOU KNOW, THAT'S THAT'S A
CONSTANT CONCERN IN THESE
CRISIS AREAS AND THAT'S THE YOU
KNOW AND I'LL CONTINUE THIS IN
PDF BUT THAT'S THE WEBSITE
WHERE YOU CAN GO TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT WAYS THAT THE DISASTER
PLAN NEEDS TO CONTEMPLATE.
ARE YOU GOING TO TAKE CARE
OF THESE COMMUNITIES OR TEND TO
THE NEEDS OF THESE COMMUNITIES
SO IT ISN'T DIAGNOSE SPECIFIC?
IT'S REALLY ABOUT HOW WE'RE
MAKING THE ENVIRONMENT
FUNCTIONAL FOR EVERYBODY.
ONE QUICK CASE STUDY BUNCH
REPORTED JOHNS TOO ACCESSIBLE
HANDWASHING STATION TO ONE I
SHOWED YOU EARLIER.
IT LOOKS PRETTY LOOKS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD IN THIS CASE
THE DEEPWATER JOHNS WERE ABOUT
40 FEET AWAY FROM THE SHELTER
ONE IT WAS A PROBLEM BECAUSE
YOU'RE ASKING PEOPLE WITH
WHEELCHAIRS FOR MOBILITY
MOBILITY ISSUES TO NAVIGATE
THAT FAR TO GET TO THE
RESTROOM.
THERE'S A REASON WHY THEY PUT
IT OUT THAT FAR HAD TO DO WITH
THE PLUMBING OR THINGS LIKE
THAT.
BUT THAT WAS A PROBLEM.
NOW THE OTHER PROBLEM WITH THIS
IT WAS ALSO NINETY FOUR DEGREES
OUTSIDE AT A RECORD HIGH AND I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE EVER BEEN
REPORTED ON JOHN IN A MIDDLE
OF THE HEAT BUT IT BECOMES IT
COULD BE A DEATH TRAP DEPENDING
ON THE TYPE OF CONDITION YOU
HAVE IF YOU ARE IF YOU'RE LIKE
ME WHERE YOU CAN'T SWEAT
BECAUSE THAT'S THE NATURE OF A
SPINAL CORD INJURY YOU HAVE TO
ARTIFICIALLY COOL YOUR SKIN
DOWN.
THIS COULD BE A REAL PROBLEM
TH IT BEING SO FAR AWAY AND
UNDER THE HOT SUN FOR SOME
MONEY WITH A DISABILITY.
SO THIS WAS ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF WHERE I HAD TO POINT OUT
WHERE THIS COULD BE PROBLEMATIC
.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT'S THE HANDWASHING
STATIONS ARE ON ORDER.
>> THAT'S THE HANDWASHING
STATION I REFERRED TO EARLIER
AND THEN THIS IS A PRETTY
IMPORTANT PART.
>> WE'RE PUTTING A BIG FOCUS
ON.
>> YOU KNOW, YOU'RE YOU'RE
ALMOST THAT TIME YOU'RE SO I'LL
LET YOU FINISH THIS PORTION
OF ROLL THROUGH THESE AND I'LL
BE LIKE THIS IS PROBABLY THE
MOST IMPORTANT MATTER OF FACT.
I MEAN LET ME LET ME GET
THROUGH THIS AND I'LL BE DONE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
MESSAGING IS A CRITICAL
COMPONENT THAT WE PLAN FOR IN
ANY DISASTER.
SO IF YOU HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO MEET WITH THE EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AGENCY IN YOUR
STATE, HAVE THEM OUTLINE FOR
YOU HOW ARE WE GOING TO MESSAGE
TO PEOPLE BECAUSE A LOT OF WHAT
GOES IN THE MESSAGING WILL
DETERMINE THE DECISIONS THAT
PEOPLE MAKE.
>> I TALKED EARLIER ABOUT THE
WILDFIRES IN SAN DIEGO.
A BIG PART OF OUR PROBLEM IS
THE RESPONSE THAT PEOPLE HAVE
WITH DISABILITIES WHEN THEY'RE
IN A DISASTER BEING WARNED TO
LEAVE.
WHETHER THEY DO THAT A LOT
OF TIMES DEPENDS ON THE QUALITY
OF THE MESSAGING HERE, SOME
TRAINING THAT ANYBODY CAN.
IT'S ON OUR FEMA PLATFORM.
YOU CAN SIGN UP REGISTER, TAKE
THE TRAINING FOR ANYBODY WHO
WANTS TO BE FAMILIAR WITH THAT.
THIS IS ULTIMATELY THE METRIC
ACCOUNTS THE MOST.
HOW CAN WE SHORTEN THE TIME IT
TAKES FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES TO RECOVER AND I
AM DONE.
>> I WAS RACING AGAINST THE
CLOCK IN MY HEAD SO I APOLOGIZE
FOR GOING OVER BUT I WAS TRYING
TO GET IT ALL IN THERE.
MR. GILLIAMS, IF I MAY CALL YOU
SHERMAN.
NO, NO.
I JUST HAVE TO KEEP US
UNDERSTAND.
YEAH YEAH NO NO WORRIES BUT
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND BY THE
WAY, I JUST ALSO WANT TO POINT
OUT THANK YOU TO COMMISSIONER
CLIFF AS WELL FOR BEING THE
LIAISON AND GETTING YOU IN THIS
MEETING BECAUSE WE ARE SHORT ON
TIME.
I SEE WE DO HAVE SOME QUESTIONS
BUT I WANT TO LIMIT IT TO TWO
QUESTIONS AND AND AND THEN MOVE
ON.
>> I'LL BE QUICK.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, MINE IS
A QUICK ONE.
WELL, YOUR ENTIRE SLIDE DECK
COME TO US SO THAT WE CAN GET
ALL THE EXCELLENT INFORMATION
YOU SHARE TODAY.
>> I WILL SEND COMMISSIONER
CHAMBRAY ALREADY HAVE IN FACT
MAY HAVE IT.
>> I THINK YOU DO ALREADY BUT
WE DO NOT.
>> BUT THAT COULD BE SENT OVER
.
I'M HAPPY TO SHARE WITH
COMMISSIONER.
I'LL DO THAT.
OK I'LL OPEN IT.
YEAH I'LL ALSO BE QUICK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THIS PRESENTATION FIRST OF ALL
I WAS WONDERING WHAT THE
PROCESSES LOOK.
YOU MENTIONED HOUSING BOTH
TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT, WHAT
THE PROCESSES LOOK LIKE FOR
CONNECTING PEOPLE TO MORE
PERMANENT DISABILITY ACCESSIBLE
HOUSING IN THE EVENT THEIR HOME
WAS DAMAGED PARTICULARLY FOR
LOWER INCOME FOLKS WHO MAY
EXPERIENCE FINANCIAL BARRIERS
TO ACCESSING A MORE PERMANENT
LOCATION.
FEMA DOESN'T DO THAT.
THAT'S REALLY THE STATE'S
RESPONSIBILITY.
WE'RE INVITED IN TO MAKE THE
AREA SAFE BUT THE BIGGEST
PROBLEM FOR THIS COMMUNITY IS
HOUSING IT LASTS LONG AFTER THE
DISASTER.
SO THAT'S A DISCUSSION I WOULD
LOVE TO HAVE WITH YOU MAYBE IN
ITS OWN SESSION TO FIGURE OUT
HOW MICHIGAN IN ANN ARBOR HAS
PREPARED FOR THAT QUESTION IN
CASE ANYTHING EVER HAPPENS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, MR.
GILLIAMS.
AND PLEASE I HOPE THAT WE CAN,
YOU KNOW, CONTINUE TO TO BE IN
CONTACT WITH YOU AND HAVE YOU,
YOU KNOW, ABREAST OF ABBAS AND
THEN YOU KEEPING US ABREAST
OF WHAT'S GOING ON IN NATURAL
DISASTER AREAS AROUND OUR
COUNTRY AND IF THERE IS
ANYTHING THAT WE CAN ASSIST
WITH FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO REACH
OUT TO US.
>> LET YOU KNOW I'LL BE HERE
ANY TIME YOU NEED ME.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE.
YES.
THANK YOU FOR COMING.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
OUR NEXT PRESENTATION.
WE HAVE THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY
FOR THE BLIND PHYSICALLY
DISABLED WITH KATIE MOSCOVITCH.
KATIE, WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
ME HERE TODAY.
EVERYBODY.
AS USUAL, I'M JUST GOING TO
GIVE SOME UPDATES ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING ON AT THE LIBRARY.
WE HAVE SOME UPCOMING EVENTS
THAT I'M GOING TO HIGHLIGHT IT.
THE FIRST ONE IS YOU'VE GOT A
BOOK IN YOU HOW TO GO FROM IDEA
TO AUTHOR THAT'S ON SUNDAY,
FEBRUARY TWENTY FIFTH FROM TWO
TO THREE THIRTY PM AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
WE'RE INVITING YOU TO JOIN
WRITER AND PUBLISHING EXPERT
BRANDY LARSEN TO UNDERSTAND THE
INS AND OUTS OF BOOK PUBLISHING
FROM HOW BOOKS GO FROM IDEAS TO
MANUSCRIPTS TO BESTSELLERS AND
HOW YOUR WORK CAN FIT INTO THE
PUBLISHING PROCESS.
TALK WILL FOCUS ON ADULT BOOKS
FROM THE BIGGEST PUBLISHING
COMPANIES AND SOME ASPECTS
OF SELF PUBLISHING.
IF YOUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY
HAVE
SAID THAT'S A BOOK THIS
ENTERTAINING AN ENTIRE
INSPIRING TALK IS FOR YOU.
WE ALSO HAVE AN AUTHOR EVENT
COMING UP.
THIS IS THE AUTHOR IS MALLEA
LZARO.
SHE'LL BE DISCUSSING HER BOOK
FROM INTENTION TO IMPACT A
PRACTICAL GUIDE TO DIVERSITY,
EQUITY AND INCLUSION.
THIS IS ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY
TWENTY NINTH FROM SIX THIRTY TO
SEVEN THIRTY PM AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY FROM INTENTION TO
IMPACT SHOWS WHAT ORGANIZATIONS
,LEADERS AND PEOPLE AT ALL
LEVELS MUST DO TO CREATE MORE
INCLUSIVE ENVIRONMENTS THAT
HONOR AND VALUE DIVERSITY.
LHASA'S SHARES A SEVEN STAGE
GUIDE THROUGH THIS PROCESS AS
WELL AS A 3L MODEL OF LISTENING
,LEARNING AND LOVING THAT
READERS CAN USE FROM THE
INITIAL EXCITEMENT OF DOING
SOMETHING TO THE FRUSTRATION
WHEN THE INEVITABLE PUSHBACK
AND FINALLY TO THE
DETERMINATION TO DO THE HARD
WORK DESPITE THE CHALLENGES ON
CORPORATE AND POLITICAL FRONTS
MOST COMPELLING FROM INTENTION
TO IMPACT SHOWS THAT WHILE
COMMITMENT FROM THE TOP IS
PARAMOUNT FOR DTI TO BE MOST
EFFECTIVE IT NEEDS TO BE
DECENTRALIZED AMONG MANAGERS,
WITHIN TEAMS AND ACROSS THE
ORGANIZATION FOR THIS EVENT
LAWSIE WILL BE IN CONVERSATION
WITH RYAN FRIEDRICH'S CHIEF
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER FOR THE
CITY OF DETROIT, AN ADVISORY
BOARD MEMBER FOR THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN'S YOUTH POLICY LAB
AND THE LIBRARY INTENDS TO
PROVIDE A LIVE STREAM OF THIS
EVENT PENDING THE PRESENTERS
PERMISSION.
YOU CAN CHECK ADL DOUG PRIOR TO
THE EVENT FOR ADDITIONAL
UPDATES ON THAT COUPLE OF WORDS
ABOUT MATERIALS AS USUAL
WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND
AND DISABLED PATRONS CAN ORDER
DIGITAL CARTRIDGES BY CALLING
US AT SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE
TWO SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR.
BUT YOU CAN ALWAYS EMAIL US
ELBY P D AT A DL DOG AND WE
ENCOURAGE FOLKS WHO ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR THE SERVICE TO
SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE AND
AUDIO READING SERVICE TO
DOWNLOAD THEIR OWN BOOKS YOU
CAN VISIT AND B A R D THE L O C
GEO V OR CALL US AND WE CAN
ASSIST WITH YOUR APPLICATION
AND HERE ARE A COUPLE OF BOOKS
THAT YOU CAN FIND RECENTLY ON
BAADE DINNER WITH THE PRESIDENT
FOOD POLITICS AND A HISTORY
OF BREAKING BREAD AT THE WHITE
HOUSE BY ALEX PRUD'HOMME.
>> SOME OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
MOMENTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY
HAVE OCCURRED OVER MEALS AS US
PRESIDENTS BROKE BREAD WITH
FRIENDS AND FOE THOMAS
JEFFERSON'S NATION BUILDING
RECEPTIONS IN THE NEW CAPITAL
WASHINGTON, D.C. ULYSSES S.
GRANT STATE DINNER FOR THE KING
OF HAWAII TEDDY ROOSEVELT'S
GROUNDBREAKING SUPPER WITH
BOOKER WASHINGTON JIMMY
CARTER'S CAKES AND PIES THAT
FUELED A DETENTE BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND EGYPT AT CAMP DAVID HERE
ALEX PRUD'HOMME INVITES
LISTENERS INTO THE WHITE HOUSE
KITCHEN TO REVEAL THE SOMETIMES
CURIOUS TASTES OF TWENTY SIX
OF AMERICA'S MOST INFLUENTIAL
PRESIDENTS HOW THEIR MEALS WERE
PREPARED AND BY WHOM AND THE
WAYS THEIR CHOICES AFFECTED
FOOD POLICY AROUND THE WORLD.
WHAT OUR LEADERS SAY ABOUT FOOD
TOUCHES ON EVERYTHING FROM OUR
NATION'S SHIFTING DIET AND
LOCAL POLITICS TO GLOBAL TRADE
SCIENCE, RELIGION, WAR, CLASS,
GENDER, RACE AND SO MUCH MORE.
PRUD'HOMME ALSO DETAILS
OVERLOOKED FIGURES LIKE GEORGE
WASHINGTON'S ENSLAVED CHEF
HERCULES POSEY, WHOSE MEALS
BURNISHED THE PRESIDENT'S
REPUTATION BEFORE THE COOK
NARROWLY ESCAPED TO FREEDOM AND
PIONEERING FIRST LADIES SUCH AS
DOLLY MADISON AND JACKIE
KENNEDY WHO USED FOOD AND
ENTERTAINING TO BUILD POLITICAL
AND SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS AS HE
WEAVES THESE STORIES TOGETHER,
PRUD'HOMME SHOWS THAT FOOD IS
NOT JUST FUEL WHEN IT IS SERVED
AS THE MOST POWERFUL PEOPLE IN
THE WORLD.
IT IS A TOOL OF COMMUNICATION,
A LOVER OF POWER AND
PERSUASION, A FORM
OF ENTERTAINMENT AND A SYMBOL
OF THE NATION.
AND WE ALSO HAVE THE FUN HABIT
HOW THE PURSUIT OF JOY AND
WONDER CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE BY
MICHAEL RUCKER DOESN'T IT SEEM
THAT THE MORE WE SEEK HAPPINESS
THE MORE ELUSIVE IT BECOMES?
THERE IS AN EASY FIX.
FUN IS AN ACTION YOU CAN TAKE
HERE AND NOW PRACTICALLY
ANYWHERE ANY TIME THROUGH
RESEARCH AND SCIENCE.
YOU KNOW FUN IS ENORMOUSLY
BENEFICIAL TO OUR PHYSICAL AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING.
YET SON'S ABSENCE FROM OUR
MODERN LIVES IS STRIKING.
WHETHER YOU'RE A FRUSTRATED
HIGH ACHIEVER TRYING TO FIND A
BETTER WORK LIFE BALANCE OR
SOMEONE WHO IS SEEKING RELIEF
FROM LIFE'S OVERWHELMING
CHALLENGES, IT IS TIME YOU GAIN
ACCESS TO THE BEST MEDICINE
AVAILABLE AND THAT IS ALL I
HAVE FOR YOU FOLKS TODAY.
>> DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS FOR ME,
ZACH OF COURSE.
FIRST OF ALL OH MY GOODNESS.
DINNER WITH THE PRESIDENT.
AMAZING.
AMAZING SAID HI.
YEAH.
MY GOODNESS.
OH MY GOD.
I CAN'T WAIT TO CHECK THAT OUT
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
SENDING THAT ABSOLUTELY.
JUST THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION HOW
INTERESTING THAT WAS.
>> DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS FOR KATY
?
OK, WELL SO GOOD TO SEE YOU
ALL.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME AND
WE'LL SEE YOU NEXT TIME.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH KATIE FOR ALL
OF YOUR WORK.
AND YOU KNOW AS THE WARMER
MONTHS COME WE DEFINITELY LOOK
FORWARD TO DIVISIONS COMING UP.
>> YOU KNOW, AS THE WARMER
MONTHS COME ABOUT JUNE 5TH,
MORE INFORMATION TO COME.
>> BUT THANK YOU FOR BRINGING
IT UP.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, KATIE.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO OUR NEXT
PRESENTATION.
WE HAVE THE DISABILITY NETWORK
OF WASHTENAW, MONROE AND
LIVINGSTON WITH ANDREA ANDREA,
THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
JUST A QUICK BRIEF UPDATE.
WHY QUICKLY HIGHLIGHT SOMETHING
I DON'T THINK WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT RECENTLY HERE AT THESE
MEETINGS AND THAT IS THE ART
GALLERY THAT IS ON SITE IN THE
ANNENBERG LOCATION CURRENTLY
HAS AN EXHIBIT GOING ON THAT
STARTED ON FEBRUARY 12TH AND
RUNS THROUGH MARCH TWENTY NINTH
WITH THE CLOSING RECEPTION FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY, THE
GALLERY IS AVAILABLE FOR FOLKS
TO COME SEE THE ARTWORK MONDAY
THROUGH FRIDAY FROM EIGHT
THIRTY TO FOUR THIRTY.
THERE'S ALSO SOME VIRTUAL
OPTIONS FOR VIEWING THAT SAME
GALLERY AN ART EXHIBITION AND
OF COURSE THAT STEMS FROM ART
CLASSES AT PROVIDED BY OUR ART
TEACHER CLAIRE MOORE AND OUR
ENTIRE LOCATION ON MULTIPLE
TIMES A WEEK.
SO IF FOLKS ARE INTERESTED IN
THOSE I WOULD ENCOURAGE THEM TO
GIVE OUR OFFICE A CALL, CHECK
OUT OUR WEBSITE.
OUR EVENT CALENDAR HAS ALL
OF THAT UPDATED INFORMATION
THAT AS I THINK I'VE INDICATED
BEFORE, IT CHANGES AND IT'S
UPDATED MORE FREQUENTLY THAN
THEN I CAN SPEAK TO ON THE
OCCASION.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO BRING THAT
TO FOLKS ATTENTION AND LET
FOLKS KNOW THAT THAT IS
SOMETHING WE HAVE IN OUR
BUILDINGS AND ON SITE AND
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO GO CHECK OUT
THAT EXCITING ART EXHIBIT AND
STAY TUNED IN THE COMING MONTHS
FOR MORE UPDATES, CLASSES,
EVENTS AND EXHIBITS AND SUCH
GOING AT DISABILITY NETWORK AS
WELL AS OF COURSE OUR
CELEBRATION WHEN THE MONTH
OF THE WEATHER GET MORE
CONSISTENTLY BETTER THAN THE
BEAUTIFUL WET RANDOM DAY WE'RE
HAVING TODAY.
SO THAT'S ALL I HAVE FOR FOLKS
SAY UNLESS ANYBODY HAS ANY
QUESTIONS THANK YOU FOR YOUR
TIME, ANDREA.
>> THANK YOU.
AND YES, PLEASE THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR MENTIONING IT WHEN
THAT ADA CELEBRATION COMES
ABOUT.
ABSOLUTELY.
PLEASE LET US KNOW IF YOU DON'T
MIND.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO PLUG THE
AMAZING NOTHING ABOUT US
WITHOUT US FILM FESTIVAL THAT
DOESN'T WORK IS LAUNCHING YOU
GUYS THAT'S GOING TO BE COMING
UP I THINK WENT AROUND MARCH OR
APRIL.
>> I THINK APRIL SO I'LL HAVE
MORE INFORMATION FOR THAT FOR
YOU FOLKS AND EVERYONE IN MARCH
BUT IT'S COMING IN APRIL SO
EXCITING THINGS ARE HAPPENING.
>> YEAH AND IF ANYBODY KNOWS
YOU KNOW, FILMMAKERS OR
PRODUCERS OR ANYTHING OF THAT
SORT ARE YOU GUYS STILL
ACCEPTING SUBMISSIONS?
>> I BELIEVE SUBMISSIONS ARE
OFFICIALLY CLOSED BUT AGAIN, IF
YOU DO KNOW SOMEONE DON'T
HESITATE TO GIVE YOUR OFFICE A
CALL AND THEY CAN CONNECT YOU
TO THE FOLKS WHO ARE
FACILITATING THAT EVENT TO FIND
THAT OUT FOR SURE THERE MIGHT
BE SOME SPACE AVAILABLE THAT I
JUST I'M NOT AWARE OF SO
OUTSTANDING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
AND I ENCOURAGE ALL OF US AT
THIS MEETING TO HOPEFULLY
ATTEND THE DIGITAL NOTHING
ABOUT US ABOUT A FILM FESTIVAL
WILL BE ACCESSIBLE, ACCESSIBLE
,ACCESSIBLE EXCUSE ME
DIGITALLY SO I HOPE WE CAN
ATTEND.
I HAVE TO SAY FROM EXPERIENCE I
ATTENDED IT LAST YEAR AND USED
SOME OF THE PROGRAMING AND I
AND I HAVE TO TELL YOU THE
DIALOG THAT IS CENTERED AROUND
THE PROGRAMING AND AND ALL
OF THAT IS VERY, VERY IMPACTFUL
.
THE DIALOG IS IMPORTANT AND AND
I JUST ENCOURAGE ALL OF US TO
TO JOIN THAT AS WELL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO THE
DISABILITY NETWORK
OF WASHINGTON, MONROE AND
LIVINGSTON FOR ALL YOU'RE DOING
.
>> THANK YOU, ZACH.
ALL RIGHT.
UP NEXT, I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
OUR PARTNERS AND ACCESS
COMMITTEE REPORT WITH MR. LARRY
KEILLER.
>> LARRY, THE FLOOR IS YOURS,
SIR.
I THINK YOU'RE STILL ON MUTE,
LARRY.
I KNOW YOU'RE PROBABLY TRYING
TO FIND IT.
NO WORRIES
.
NO WORRIES.
JUST LET US KNOW, LARRY, WHEN
YOU'VE UNMUTED AND WE WILL WE
WILL MAKE SURE YOU CAN GET TO
THAT AREA I'M ON MUTED PERFECT.
THANK YOU, SIR.
AWAY EXCELLENT.
YEAH.
FOR SOME REASON IT TAKES ME A
MINUTE I HAVE TO KEEP DOING IT
DOING IT WITH THIS PHONE AND
THIS IS A NEW ONE BUT STILL.
ALL RIGHT.
PARTNERS IN ACCESS WE WE DID ME
A COMMISSIONER MOZART JOINED US
AND WE DISCUSSED THE UPDATE WE
DISCUSSED THE WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE THING WE
DISCUSSED LAST TIME WITH THE
STUDENT WHO IS HAVING SOME
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES BUT THERE
WAS NO REAL UPDATES THERE AT
THAT.
WE ALSO DISCUSSED THE THE
PARKING THE HANDICAPPED PARKING
PROBLEM THAT WERE BEING HAD AT
CITY HALL AND THERE MAY BE A
COUPLE MORE COMING UP BUT THERE
WAS NO OTHER UPDATES ON THAT.
AND THEN THE MISSING MICHIGAN
THEATER WE TALKED ABOUT THE
MICHIGAN THEATER AND THE
PROPOSAL THAT IS GOING AROUND
ABOUT TRYING TO GET TO THE NEW
GLASSES THAT UP THERE FOR ANY
KIND OF THING.
AND I VOLUNTEERED TO CALL THE
THEATERS AND I DIDN'T I DIDN'T
I GOT A NUMBER FOR STATE
THEATER BUT I DIDN'T GET
THROUGH TO IT AND I GOT THERE
SEEMS TO BE NOT AVAILABLE AND
MICHIGAN THEATER ONE I DIDN'T
GET THROUGH TO EITHER.
SO I'M TAKING BY AT LEAST FOR
THE MICHIGAN THEATER GOING DOWN
AND GRABBING SOME POPCORN AND
SEE IF I COULD TALK TO SOMEBODY
IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS I'LL SKIP
ACROSS THE STREET TO THE STATE
THEATER AND TRY TO SEE IF I CAN
SEE THEM IN PERSON TO SEE WHAT
THEY HAVE FOR ACCESSIBILITY
OPTIONS CURRENTLY.
>> NOW THE FOR EXAMPLE, THE
VOICE AND I THINK MICHIGAN
THEATER HAS THAT THE VOICE THE
AUDIO AUDIO DESCRIPTION I
SUBMIT I SEEM TO HAVE USED THAT
IS THE MICHIGAN THEATER BUT
IT'S NOT REALLY I CAN'T
REMEMBER I KNOW I'VE USED IT
OTHER PLACES AND I FOUND IT
PRETTY ADEQUATE FOR FILLING IN
THE HOLES OF WHAT I DID THOUGH.
SO I I WANT TO SEE WHAT THESE
WHAT THE STATE MICHIGAN THEATER
HAVE BEFORE WE PUSH.
SO I BASICALLY WE SET THAT IS
BRINGING IT UP TO THE
COMMISSION AND DOING MORE
RESEARCH BEFORE WE GO TO
FORWARD ON IT AND IF THERE'S
ANY DISCUSSION WHICH I'M SURE
THERE PROBABLY WILL BE BECAUSE
WE HAVE MR. PARKER TO MISS THE
MEETING HERE AND I THINK THAT
WAS HIS IDEA AND SO IF THERE'S
ANY DISCUSSION WE CAN LET THAT
HAPPEN IF IF YOU'D LIKE.
>> SURE.
AND I'LL GET MY MY UNDER MY
REPORT.
OH, THANK YOU, LARRY.
AND THANK YOU TO THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE FOR ALL
THE WORK THAT YOU'RE DOING WITH
THE THE INDIVIDUAL WASHTENAW
COMMUNITY COLLEGE, THE
HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES AND
THEN THIS INITIATIVE THAT WAS
BROUGHT FORTH BY COMMISSIONER
PACARD, COMMISSIONER PACKARD I
KNOW YOU HAVE SOME ADDITIONAL
COMMENTS ON ON THAT INITIATIVE
FOR THE MICHIGAN AND STATE
THEATERS.
>> SO WOULD YOU LIKE TO SHARE
THAT?
YES, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND LARRY, I WILL BE IN TOWN IN
THE NEAR FUTURE.
GLAD TO JOIN YOU AND DO
ANYTHING I CAN.
THIS IS MORE OF A GENERAL KIND
OF A VOID OR BLACK HOLE NOT
JUST OR ANY ONE THEATER OR
PUBLIC AREA BUT WHAT I'VE
NOTICED IS THAT A LOT OF PLACES
VIDEO OR VISUAL ASSISTIVE
DEVICES ARE NOT THERE IN
GENERAL WHERE IT COULD FILL IN
FOR PEOPLE WHO MIGHT WANT SOME
JUST ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE AND
SEEING THINGS.
SO I THINK THE IDEA OF US
MOVING FORWARD IN SOME WAY
OF WHATEVER KIND OF DEVICE IT
IS WOULD BE REALLY AWESOME.
I LOOKED UP SOME STATS IT IS
THE CDC MILLION PEOPLE IN
AMERICA ARE BLIND, LEGALLY
BLIND AND NINETY THREE PERCENT
OF THEM HAVE SOME USABLE VISION
.
BUT GOING OUT INTO PUBLIC
PLACES, OLD THEATERS, OUR
MUSEUMS I REALLY HAVEN'T FOUND
DEVICES THAT YOU CAN PUT ON
YOUR HEAD REAL QUICK.
I JUST THOUGHT I'D TAKE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW ONE THING
THAT I HAVE USED TO THAT YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT THAT'S
CALLED HATRIOT LENS I DON'T SEE
LOOKING FORWARD OF A TV SET IN
FRONT OF ME AND IN MY VISION I
CAN'T SEE ANYTHING BUT FUZZY
HAZY SCREEN JUST ONCE I HEAR
BUT WHEN I PUT THIS DEVICE ON I
CAN LOOK FORWARD AND I CAN SEE
,YOU KNOW, CERTAIN THINGS THAT
HELP ME TO VISUALIZE WHAT I'M
ACTUALLY LOOKING AT ON THE
SCREEN IN FRONT OF ME AND I CAN
ACTUALLY EVEN, YOU KNOW, READ
SUBTITLES SOMETIMES AND IT'S
JUST IT'S JUST HELPFUL.
SO IF WE COULD MAYBE PUT SOME
OF OUR HEADS TOGETHER AND WE
HAD A DOCTORAL CANDIDATE ON
EARLIER WHO HAS WORKED WITH THE
THEATER, IF WE CAN FIND A WAY
TO FILL IN THAT I'VE GONE INTO
MOVIE THEATERS AND TRIED TO USE
VISUAL DEVICES.
USING YOUR CELL PHONE DOESN'T
REALLY WORK BECAUSE PEOPLE
DON'T WANT YOU TO BE HOLDING A
CELL PHONE UP IN A THEATER.
SO I JUST THINK THAT IT WOULD
BE GREAT FOR US TO PUT OUR
HEADS TOGETHER, LOOK AT WHAT'S
OUT THERE AND SEE IF SOMETHING
LIKE THIS CAN HELP THE MANY
PEOPLE THAT COULD USE SOME
EXTRA ASSISTANCE IN VIEWING
THEATER EXPERIENCES.
I THINK WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO BE PIONEERS, BREAK GROUND IN
THIS AREA AND IF YOU KNOW OF A
PLACE THAT'S USING DEVICES,
VISUAL AIDS WHERE IT'S
SUCCEEDING JUST IT'S A GREAT
SUBJECT THAT I THINK WE COULD
REALLY MAKE A CHANGE ON IF WE
PUT OUR HEADS TOGETHER AS A
TEAM, A LOT OF SMART PEOPLE AND
IN HERE THAT I THINK FIGURE
SOME THINGS OUT.
YEAH, THAT'S SOMETHING YOU CAN
GO AHEAD.
OH OH I'M FINISHED.
I JUST YOU KNOW, I MEAN I THINK
THAT THERE IS A DEFINITE NEED
AND YOU KNOW, I'VE AND THIS
ISN'T JUST ME.
THIS IS TALKING WITH MANY IN
THE COMMUNITY OF THOSE WHO ARE
BLIND LIKE MYSELF.
YOU GO INTO AND I'M NOT JUST
ANY IN GENERAL THEATER ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
A LOT OF TIMES YOU'RE GIVING
CLOSED CAPTIONING DEVICE WHICH
BEING BLIND I CAN'T READ MANY
TIMES IN VARIOUS THEATERS I'VE
BEEN GIVEN A WALKMAN SO I CAN
HEAR BETTER BUT BEING BLIND
THAT I HEAR FINE.
>> YEAH BUT YEAH SO BUT I HAVE
YET TO BE TOLD IN A PLACE AND
IT WOULD BE REALLY GREAT FOR
THE NINETY THREE PERCENT
OF THOSE WHO ARE BLIND WITH
USABLE VISION.
HERE'S SOMETHING TO HELP YOU
SEE IT BETTER.
THAT WOULD BE AWESOME.
SO THIS IS A CHANCE WHERE WE
CAN ACTUALLY BE BREAKING GROUND
AND ADDING THIS TO THAT TOOL
KIT WHETHER IT BE THROUGH
DONATION PILOT PROGRAM GRANT OR
WHATEVER IT TAKES TO SEE HOW IT
WORKS.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT CAN HELP
PEOPLE WHO COULD USE THAT
LITTLE EXTRA ASSISTANCE.
IT'S THE EQUIVALENT OF LIKE A
HEARING AID FOR SOMEONE WHO IS
WHO MAY BE DEAF THAT NEEDS A
LITTLE EXTRA HEARING.
SO I'D BE GLAD TO WORK WITH YOU
AND BRANES HIM AND FIGURE SOME
THINGS OUT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT THAT
IT'S EASY THAT IT'S EVEN BEING
DISCUSSED AMONG ALL OF THE
FOLKS HERE.
I HAVE A DEGREE IN BROADCAST
CINEMATIC ARTS.
I WAS A TV NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER, A
REPORTER FOR ALMOST
I KNOW A
LOT OF FOLKS HERE IN THIS GREAT
TEAM THE FEEL THE EXACT SAME
WAY IN FINDING OTHER WAYS TO
HELP EACH OTHER THINGS LIKE
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER PACARD.
>> YES, LARRY, GO AHEAD.
I HAD A COUPLE JUST A COUPLE A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE IS I'D I'M INTERESTED IN
YOUR INPUT, COMMISSIONER
PACKERS' BECAUSE YOU DO HAVE
SOME USABLE SITE LASK I HAVE I
HAVE NONE ANYBODY ASKED ME AS I
HAVE A PROBLEM SEEING I MIGHT
NOT HAVE A PROBLEM SAYING I
JUST DON'T DO IT ANYMORE.
SO I'M VERY I'M VERY INTERESTED
IN THAT AND YES I'LL I'LL CALL
YOU SOMETIME THIS WEEK OR BY
THE WEEKEND AND WE CAN SET UP
FOR ONE YEAR AND THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WANT TO COME WITH
US WE COULD GO AND VISIT THOSE
THEATERS AND DO SOME RESEARCH
WHEN YOU'RE IN TOWN WE CAN SET
UP A TIME TO DO THAT.
WE CAN DO THAT AND I'D LOVE TO
DO THAT WITH YOU BECAUSE AGAIN
I HAVE NO SITE.
YOU HAVE SOMEONE I'M KIND
OF WONDERING I'M KIND
OF INTERESTED WHERE YOU'RE
COMING FROM AND I DO HAVE SOME
OTHER PEOPLE THAT ARE PARTIALLY
SIGHTED THAT MAY OR MAY NOT
KNOW SOME OF THIS TECHNOLOGY IS
AVAILABLE IF THEY HAVE ANYTHING
.
>> I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO DOING
THAT.
OH, GREAT.
GREAT.
I'VE HAD FOLKS WHO HAVE BEEN
BLIND AND UNABLE TO GO TO MOVIE
THEATERS AND THEY'VE GOT
THEY'VE TRIED THIS ON AND IT'S
REALLY NEAT TO SEE THE REACTION
I WENT INTO A THEATER IN HERE
IN CALIFORNIA.
THEY HAD NOTHING FOR ME THERE.
NOTHING WAS WORKING AND I
BROUGHT MY OWN DEVICE HERE THAT
MAGNIFIES THE SCREEN AND LETS
YOU ZOOM IN AND
I COULD
ACTUALLY READ SOME OF THE
SUBTITLES WITH THIS DEVICE.
SO THIS IN A LOT OF PEOPLE
DON'T KNOW THIS IS OUT THERE.
THIS IS KIND OF CUTTING EDGE
AND I THINK THAT TECHNOLOGY'S
GOING TO REALLY HELP AS WE KNOW
THINGS HAVE CHANGED A LOT IN
THE LAST TEN, TWENTY YEARS AND
THEY'RE GOING TO THEY'RE GOING
TO MOVE FORWARD.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH, LARRY
AND EVERYONE HERE AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE POPCORN AND
YEAH, YOU CAN GO SEE THE MOVIES
THAT THAT'S RIGHT, GENTLEMENS.
NO MUCH LARRY.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE CLEAR TO
I THINK THAT'S OUTSTANDING BUT
PLEASE PLEASE KEEP KEEP THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS COMMITTEE
IF YOU CAN INVOLVED IN THE
PROCESS BECAUSE I'D LIKE US ALL
TO TO HAVE IT BE A UNIFIED
EFFORT SO THERE ISN'T AN
IMPORTANT BECAUSE WELL I WAS
JUST I JUST GOING TO SET IT UP.
I JUST WANTED WHEN HE'S BACK IN
TOWN AND THEN OF COURSE ANYBODY
ELSE CAN COME OFF SET IT UP FOR
ANYBODY ELSE TO GREAT GREAT
GENTLEMAN WILL PLEASE KEEP KEEP
ME INFORMED ON THAT REALLY
APPRECIATE IT.
ANYTHING ELSE FOR PARTNERS AND
ACCESS
.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT WITH RACHEL HAWKINS.
HI, RACHEL.
IZAK I AM I'M HERE I DO NOT
HAVE A NEW UPDATE.
I REACHED OUT TO SOMEBODY THEY
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE PRODUCING A
NEW SESSION LAST MONTH SO I
JUST ASKED FOR AN UPDATE ON
KIND OF WHERE THINGS ARE IN
TERMS OF THE RELEASE THE
RELEASE SCHEDULE FOR THE
SESSIONS AND THEN I'LL SEND
THAT TO KENNEDY WHEN I HAVE AN
UPDATE.
>> SO OUTSTANDING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> NO THANK YOU, RACHEL.
AND YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT YOU
TO KNOW I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL
OF YOUR EFFORTS THAT YOU DO TO
KEEP US INFORMED IN OUR VERY
INCLUSIVE OR OUR DISABILITY
DAYTIME TELEVISION SHOW MAKING
SURE THAT WE ARE SHOWCASING NOT
ONLY THE SUCCESSES OF THOSE
WITH DISABILITIES BUT ALSO THE
DISABILITY RESOURCES AVAILABLE
TO THOSE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
AROUND THE STATE.
SO THANK YOU REALLY APPRECIATE
IT AND THANK YOU TO ALL THE
GREAT WORK THEY DO ON THAT SHOW
AS WELL AS TOM HOAGLUND AND
LINDA EVANS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
OUR RECRUITING ACTIVITY LARRY
ARE BACK AT IT HERE YOU ARE
BACK AT IT.
>> WELL, WE HAVE GOT NOTHING IN
THE WORLD.
WE HAVE DONE SOMETHING BUT WE
HAVE WHAT WE HAVE THAT IS WE
PRESENTED YOU ANOTHER CANDIDATE
FOR REVIEW FOR THE COMMISSION.
WE INTERVIEWED HIM A COUPLE
WEEKS AGO AND YOU HAVE HEARD
FROM HIM SINCE THE BEGINNING
AND WE DO INTEND TO SEND HIM
FOR WHATEVER OR WHATEVER THAT
VOTE WOULD BE SOON.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT I HAVE NOT
SEEN ANY MORE CANDIDATES COME
THROUGH AND BUT WE ARE STILL
LOOKING FOR ANYBODY WHO WANTS
TO APPLY CAN AND STILL DO THAT.
>> AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
NEXT, LARRY, DON'T GO ANYWHERE
BECAUSE THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE THAT MEETING
WAS THE SEVENTEENTH OF JANUARY
AFTER HOURS AT SEVEN O'CLOCK
AND WE HAD NO PUBLIC COMMENT SO
AND WE HAD ELECTIONS AND CHRIS
AND MEGAN GOT TO BE CHAIRMAN
AND VICE CHAIRMAN.
I FORGET THEIR LAST NAMES RIGHT
NOW AND I PUT THEM DOWN AND WE
CAN FIND THEM AND THIS IS THE
ANNUAL REPORT PASSED.
SO POLICY FOR TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE PAST OH IT WASN'T CHRIS IT
WAS BRAD THAT I MADE A NOTE
HERE BUT AS AS THE CHAIR NOW
ALSO WE ALSO I APPROVED STATE
REPORT AND THERE WAS A LOT
OF RESURFACING PROJECTS AND
SIDEWALK SIDEWALK GAPS BEING
TAKEN CARE OF STAYED IN HILL
AMONG THEM MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE
IN SEVEN AND THERE WAS SOME
MORE WORK ON GREENVILLE AND S
MAIN STADIUM AND NORTH
UNIVERSITY AND NIXON AND ALLEY
WHICH IS PITTSFIELD AND THEN WE
HAD JUST SPENT THIS SPIN IN OUR
WORK PLAN FOR SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT THE SCOOTER THINGS
AND HOW THEY'RE GOING TO WORK
INTO THE WORK PLAN AND THEN WE
TALKED ABOUT US TWENTY THREE
AGAIN THEY'RE PLANNING ON DOING
A LOT OF MAJOR REVISIONS ON US.
TWENTY THREE AS IT GO THROUGH
TOWN OUT BY OUR PLAN AND THEN
WE HAD THEY'RE STILL WORKING
FOR IT.
>> WE'RE STILL WORKING FOR
CARBON REDUCTION WITH THEY WANT
TO PUT LED LIGHTS IN AND
INSTEAD OF SOME OF THE NORMAL
TRAFFIC LIGHTS SOME LED LIGHT
AND THAT WAS SET FOR THAT
MEETING AND ANYTHING I MISSED
IS PROBABLY IN THE PACKET.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY FOR ALL THAT
YOU DO FOR OUR COMMISSION AS
WELL AS ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
WE ARE GOING TO BYPASS THE UM
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERN
MEETING UPDATE THIS MONTH AS WE
WERE NOT ABLE UNFORTUNATELY TO
HAVE ANYONE PRESENT UNLESS
THERE OR ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THAT I WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK ON THAT AT THIS TIME.
OK, NEXT WE HAVE THE
ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY REPORT
WITH TRACY BYRD.
>> TRACY, THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO TOUCH ON ACTUALLY
SOMETHING THAT WAS BROUGHT UP
FROM PARTNERS AND ACCESS
MEETING REGARDING THE
ASSESSABLE PARKING AT CITY
HALL.
I HAVE FOLLOWED UP ON ON THAT
AND I'VE CONNECTED WITH EVERY
INDIVIDUAL AND WITHIN THE CITY
WHO'S INVOLVED AND RESPONSIBLE
FOR MEETING THE STANDARDS AND
HONESTLY IF EXHAUSTED ALL THE
TOOLS AND RESOURCES AVAILABLE
TO ME IN MY OFFICE.
SO NOW I NEED TO PURSUE OTHER
MEANS WHICH IS WHERE WHAT I'M
GOING TO ASK OF YOU ALL I WILL
TELL YOU I SPOKE WITH
FACILITIES AND ENGINEERS AND
SHARED THEY SHARED THEIR
APPROACH TO THE VISUAL WHY IT
WAS DONE THE WAY IT WAS DONE
AND THEY FEEL THAT THAT WE ARE
IN COMPLIANCE WITH THAT NOW.
SO WHAT MIGHT ASK IS OF YOU IS
I'M GOING TO ASK COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN TO SUBMIT AN RFI TO
THE CITY SHARING THAT THE
CURRENT CONSTRUCT OF THE BRICK
PAVERS AND SIGNS FOR ACCESSIBLE
PARKING ARE NOT SOLVING THE
ISSUE OF THE SPACE BEING LEFT
OPEN BETWEEN THE AISLE OR
BETWEEN VEHICLES.
SO THE ACCESSIBLE AISLE WAY I
SUGGEST THAT MAYBE IT'S INQUIRE
AS TO HOW TO GO ABOUT HAVING
THE PAVERS CLEARLY PAINTED WITH
LIGHT BULBS SPOT AS WELL AS THE
ACCESS AISLE YOU MIGHT ALSO
WANT TO REQUEST THAT THOSE IN
CHARGE OF MAYBE MONITOR
POLICING THE PARKING LOT
INCREASE THEIR ATTENTION TO
THIS ISSUE ESPECIALLY ON DAYS
AND NIGHTS WHEN WE HAVE A
PUBLIC MEETINGS LIKE COUNCIL
MEETINGS OR EVENTS AT CITY HALL
.
SO I KNOW THAT'S NOT A
RESOLUTION BUT IT'S MORE OF AN
ASK FROM THE COMMISSION.
I WILL ALSO SAY THAT THIS LAST
MONTH SINCE WE MET THE LAST
TIME AT THE END OF JANUARY
ACTUALLY THE THIRTY FIRST ALONG
WITH THE A REPRESENTATIVE FROM
THE CLERK'S OFFICE AND OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AS WELL AS A
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE
DISABILITY NETWORK WE COMPLETED
ACCESSIBILITY CHECKLIST
OF POLLING PLACES FOR SITES AND
ALLEN SCHOOLS ACCESSIBILITY
CHECKLISTS OR SOMETHING THAT
SHOULD BE DONE OF ALL POLLING
PLACES AND GENERALLY AH BEFORE
BEFORE ELECTION TIME.
SO EVEN THOUGH SOMETIMES THERE
THINGS MAY NOT BE FULLY
ACCESSIBLE WE CAN PUT THINGS IN
PLACE THE OF AH FOR THE DAY
OF VOTING SO WE FOUND NO MAJOR
ISSUES WITH ANY OF THE POLLING
PLACES THAT WE VISITED ALSO ON
THAT SAME DAY I DID FORWARD I
THINK I TOLD YOU THAT LAST
MONTH THAT I HAD FORWARD A
POLICY UPDATE THAT I HAD DONE
FOR THE HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES
FOR THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
I ALSO SUBMITTED AT THE END
OF JANUARY GRIEVANCE NOTICE AND
PROCEDURE ALONG WITH
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
PROCEDURES TO OUR LEGAL TEAM
FOR THEM TO REVIEW.
AND THEN ALSO JUST LAST WEEK I
HAD SUBMITTED IT'S INTERESTING
THAT THIS CAME UP AT THE
BEGINNING WITH THAT I HAD
WRITTEN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
ACCESSIBILITY POLICY AND WITHIN
THAT AND I SUBMITTED THAT ALSO
TO MICHAEL FOR REVIEW AND WITH
THAT I ACTUALLY IF I HAD THE
WHOLE I ACTUALLY PUT UP THE
MONITORING REPORTING THAT I
WOULD AT LEAST ON AN ANNUAL
BASIS WELL ENLIST THE
ASSISTANCE
OF ADVOCACY GROUPS
TO TO TEST THE WEBSITE FOR
ACCESSIBILITY AND THEN IF PAGES
ARE FOUND TO BE INACCESSIBLE WE
WOULD HAVE TEN DAYS TO BE
COMPLIANT AND THEN ONCE IN
COMPLIANCE WITH THE WEB CONTENT
ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES, THE
PAGE IN QUESTION WOULD BE
REEVALUATED FOR ACCESSIBILITY
AND THEN ALL TESTING WOULD BE
REPORTED TO THE OFFICE
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY AS
WELL AS TO CODE I SO, SO GLAD
THAT WE HAVE SOMEBODY WHO MIGHT
BECOME PART OF THE COMMISSION
THAT IS AN EXPERT ON THAT.
I ALSO WANT TO SHARE
INFORMATION THAT WAS BROUGHT UP
OR THAT AS YOU ARE POSSIBLY
LOOKING AT PUBLIC ENTITIES
THERE IS THE TWENTY AND ADA
STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE DESIGN
THAT YOU MIGHT WANT TO REVIEW
AS WELL AS FOR ANY PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION.
THEY DO HAVE TO BE COMPLIANT
UNDER TITLE THREE OF THE ADA
AND SO THAT'S THAT'S FOR PUBLIC
ENTITIES INCLUDING STORES AND
RESTAURANTS AND MOVIE THEATERS
AND SUCH.
SO JUST WANTED TO ADD THAT ON
AS A JUST AS A RESOURCE FOR
YOU.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONER BOZAK ACTUALLY I
JUST WANTED TO OFFER MY
ASSISTANCE.
I WOULD BE HAPPY TO SHARE THE
PICTURES THAT I TOOK OF MY
VEHICLE PARKED WITH THE IT WAS
ACTUALLY A KNIGHT OF A CITY
COUNCIL MEETING THAT I WENT AND
THERE WAS A CAR PARKED IN THE
BLUE LINES SO I COULD NOT
ACCESS MY VEHICLE AND I
ACTUALLY CALLED THE POLICE TO
HELP ME AND THEY WERE VERY KIND
AND OFFICER WOUND UP PULLING MY
VEHICLE OUT OF THE SPOT FOR ME.
SO THAT I COULD THEN ACCESS MY
VEHICLE IF YOU WOULD LIKE ME TO
WRITE OUT A SHORT STORY ABOUT
THAT, IF YOU WOULD FIND THAT
HELPFUL, THAT WAS NOT THE ONLY
TIME THAT HAS HAPPENED.
I'VE BEEN IN THAT PARKING LOT
SEVERAL TIMES WHERE I WAS
ACTUALLY NOT ABLE TO PARK AT
ALL BECAUSE THERE WAS SOMEONE
PARKED IN BETWEEN THE TWO
ACCESSIBLE SPOTS.
>> SO ANYTHING THAT I CAN DO TO
HELP COULD I GUESS THIS IS NOT
MY OWN PERSONAL GAIN BUT FOR
ANYONE WHO HAS AN ACCESSIBLE
VEHICLE AND HONESTLY IT'S ALSO
HELPS THE CITY BECAUSE THAT
MEANS SOMEBODY IS PARKING IN A
SPOT THAT THEY'RE NOT PAYING
FOR PARKING, YOU KNOW WHAT I
MEAN?
IT'S NOT A PAID PARKING SPOT.
IT'S LINE.
SO THERE'S SOMEONE TRYING TO
CIRCUMNAVIGATE CIRCUMNAVIGATE
PARKING.
SO ANYTHING I CAN DO TO BE
OF HELP PLEASE LET ME KNOW I
WILL SAY THAT I DO ACTUALLY
HAVE THOSE PHOTOS AND I DID
FORWARD THOSE ON TO TWO
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS WITHIN
THE CITY.
>> I WAS JUST WONDERING IF
MAYBE I WAS GOING TO CONSIDER
DOING OR SUGGESTION THAT IF I
WANTED THOSE MAYBE YOU COULD
FORWARD THEM TO HER AS WELL.
>> THEN WHAT ELSE DO YOU AT THE
EVENT YEAH HI.
>> THIS I SHOULD GO SEE ANYONE
NOW THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
I THINK I'LL TOUCH BASE WITH
TRACY OFFLINE JUST ABOUT THE
RFI BUT YEAH IF YOU CAN GO
AHEAD AND SEND THOSE PICTURES
THAT WOULD BE VERY HELPFUL
MAYBE JUST TO TRACY I THANK
YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TRACY
FOR ALL YOUR WORK WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY AND ALWAYS WE ARE
GRATEFUL AS WELL FOR HER
EFFORTS TO WORK AND LOOK
FORWARD TO ALL OF THE GREAT
GREAT THINGS TO COME.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH KENNEDY CUMMING'S
KENNEDY.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
FOR THIS MONTH I HAVE NO REPORT
OR UPDATE AT THIS TIME.
I WILL ONLY ADVISE THAT AGAIN I
AM HERE TO ASSIST YOU ALL SO IF
THERE'S ANYTHING THAT YOU GUYS
NEED ASSISTANCE WITH I COME
HERE AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU KENNEDY AND DOING A
GREAT JOB ASSISTING THE
COMMISSION AS ALWAYS.
NEXT WE MOVE TO THE CHAIR
REPORT BUT BEFORE WE DO I DO
REQUEST AT THIS TIME THAT THAT
WE DO HAVE ONE ATTENDEE THAT
BECAUSE WE ARE GOING TO BE
DOING COMMISSION BUSINESS AND
VOTING THAT I ASK THAT
INDIVIDUAL TO TO NOW DEPART OUR
MEETING FOR PRIVACY PURPOSES.
WE DO HAVE A QUESTION COUNCIL
MEMBER I I JUST WANT TO KNOW IF
YOU CAN ALL HEAR ME.
THIS IS ISEF I HAD SOME UPDATES
AND I ALSO WAS HOPING TO GET A
CHANCE TO HAVE A DISCUSSION
WITH MIKE KENNEDY.
CHIEF KENNEDY AT THE LEFT.
>> SO IS THAT ALL GOING TO
HAPPEN JUST FOR CLARITY
PURPOSES?
YEAH, THE CITRONELLE THAT'S
UNDER NEW BUSINESS THAT'S ON OK
,OK, SO WE SHOULD LEAVE OR I
SHOULD HAVE AS A NON-VOTING
MEMBER.
>> NO, NO, NO YOU DON'T HAVE
THE GAS JUST THE GAS AT IT.
YEAH YOU JUST THE GAS OK WE ASK
ANY GUESTS THEY ARE ON AT THIS
TIME EXCEPT FOR THOSE WHO NEED
TO PRESENT IF THOSE GAS CAN
DEPART THIS MEETING AT THIS
TIME SO THAT WE CAN CONDUCT
OFFICIAL BUSINESS ON RECORD
THAT WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
KENNEDY, COULD YOU NOTIFY THE
COMMISSION WHEN THAT GAS SAYS
DEPARTED PLEASE?
>> THE CANDIDATE HAS DEPARTED.
WE ARE ALL SET.
THANK YOU.
SO UNDER THE CHAIR REPORT I
THEN NOW BRING THE TOPIC OF SAM
I CAN BAUER TO THE COMMISSION
FOR CONSIDERATION AND I MOVE TO
TO VOTE WHETHER WE SHOULD
INCORPORATE THIS INDIVIDUAL ON
THE COMMISSION AND IF WE SHOULD
YOU KNOW, VOTE ON HIM TO GO TO
THE NEXT STAGE.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THIS
?
OK, I HAVE SOME OK LARRY I JUST
WANT TO MENTION THAT I AND THE
COMMISSION CAN TAKE THIS FOR
WHAT THEY'RE WORTH WHAT IT'S
WORTH.
BUT I THOUGHT WHAT I WHEN WE
INTERVIEWED THE CANDIDATE I
THOUGHT THAT HE WAS VERY GREAT
WITH THE RESEARCH HE WAS VERY
COOL WITH RESEARCH BUT IT
SEEMED LIKE HE WAS VERY
UNFAMILIAR WITH A LOT
OF DISABILITY, YOU KNOW, MADE
DISABILITY ADVOCACY FOR SAY HE
WAS A RESEARCH GUY AND I DON'T
MY CONCERN WAS WELL HE BE A
GOOD ADVOCATE.
WILL HE BE A GUY THAT WE MIGHT
WANT TO GO TO AS A RESEARCH GUY
NOW THAT'S THE ONLY THING I'M
AND THEREFORE I WILL BE VOTING
AGAINST HIM AGAIN HIM BUT YOU
KNOW, THIS IS WHY WE BROUGHT IT
UP TO THE COMMISSION BECAUSE I
COULD BE TOTALLY WRONG AND WHAT
WE NEED.
OK, THANK YOU, LARRY, FOR
SHARING YOUR THOUGHTS.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS I GUESS I'D
OFFER THE COUNTERPOINT WHICH IS
TO SAY THAT I DON'T MIND THAT
LACK OF EXPERIENCE.
I THINK THIS COULD BE A GROWTH
OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS INDIVIDUAL
.
IT IS A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE
THAN WHAT I'VE SEEN IN MY YEARS
ON THE COMMISSION.
I'M MORE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT
ENRICHING THE CONVERSATIONS I
LIKE TO THE SPIRIT
OF VOLUNTEERISM.
SO I'M A LITTLE MORE
OPTIMISTIC.
BUT I DO RECOGNIZE THAT LARRY,
YOU HAVE A LOT MORE EXPERIENCE
IN THIS SPACE THAN I DO ABSOLU
.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER PACKARD, I
JUST WANTED TO CONCUR WITH THE
LAST COMMENT THAT I BELIEVE
THAT HE CLEARLY OFFERS A
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE AND SKILL
SET THAT WOULD BE VALUABLE AND
I SENSE THAT HE IS HERE AND IN
HIS CAREER BECAUSE HE IS
PASSIONATE ABOUT WHAT HE IS
WORKING ON AND RESEARCHING.
IT WOULD BE GREAT TO HAVE
SOMEONE WHO CAN HELP IN AREAS
OF RESEARCH LIKE YOU TALKED
ABOUT AND I JUST I JUST FEEL
THAT IT SOUNDS LIKE A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY.
THE ONLY QUESTION IS WE'RE
REQUIRED TO HAVE A CERTAIN
PERCENTAGE OF BOARD MEMBERS
WITH A DISABILITY CORRECT.
AND JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE STILL WITHIN THOSE
COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS IS THE
ONLY QUESTION THAT I WOULD
HAVE.
BUT AS FAR AS SKILLS
PERSPECTIVE, I THINK I WAS
PRETTY EXCITED TO HEAR
EVERYTHING YOU HAD TO SAY
PRETTY ENCOURAGED.
SO YES, THAT IS CORRECT AND
YES, WE ARE IN COMPLIANCE.
WE ARE OK.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OK AND I WANT TO ENCOURAGE ALL
COMMISSION TO I MEAN GOING
FORWARD IF ANYONE WANTS TO
CONTINUE LIKE WANTS TO BE A
PART OF THE RECRUITING
COMMITTEE TO REVIEW
APPLICATIONS THAT COME IN WITH
MYSELF, WITH LARRY, WITH
KENNEDY PLEASE REACH OUT AND
YOU MORE CAN BE A PART OF THAT
PROCESS.
BY THE WAY, GOT THOSE
INTERVIEWS AND AND WHEN WE ARE
KIND OF SCREENING CANDIDATE
WITH THAT BEING SAID AT THIS
POINT YOU KNOW, I'D LIKE TO I'D
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO TO TO
VOTE
ON THIS CANDIDATE.
>> I MOVE WE VOTE.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M SENDING THIS CANDIDATE
FORWARD.
OK, SO THEN ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
MOVING ORDER.
WE NEED A SECOND.
>> OH YEAH WE NEED TO IT YEAH.
THIS IS KATHLEEN WILL SECOND
AND I ALSO WANTED TO RECOGNIZE
THAT JEB HAS JOINED US.
I WASN'T SURE IF ANYBODY SAW
THAT.
>> YES I DID.
I MAKE NOTE OF HER PRESENT AND
I TOOK HER DOWN.
>> PRESIDENT THANK YOU.
YES THANK YOU KATHLEEN.
YES.
SO THANK YOU KATHLEEN FOR THE
SECOND.
MY APOLOGIES FOR THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ALL IN FAVOR OF PUTTING A
VOTE TO SAM AND BAUER AND
PUTTING HIM TO THE NEXT LEVEL.
PLEASE UNMUTED AND SAY AY AY AY
AY OK, GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
I WAS WAY BACK AND GREAT TO
HEAR YOU BY THE WAY AND HOPE
BUT I'M I'M ALWAYS GOING HOME.
I'M STILL IN THE REGENCY IT OK
THANK YOU MIKE IS NOT THE
RIGIDNESS YOU GUYS KNOW IT'S
THE IT'S THE REHAB.
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
YEAH NICE BE IN THE HYATT
REGENCY I HOPE YOUR HEALING AND
REHAB GOES WELL DEBBIE I THINK
YOU ABSOLUTELY OK KENNEDY THANK
YOU.
AND THEN IF YOU CAN NOTIFY SAM
AT SOME POINT WE REALLY
APPRECIATE THAT.
WELL DO THANK.
NEXT WE MOVE ON TO THE CITY
COUNCIL UPDATE WITH COUNCILMAN
GARZA EDWIN EVERYONE IT'S CHEF
.
>> SO THANKS FOR THE YEAH.
THANKS.
SO I HAVE A FEW THINGS I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT.
ONE IS I'VE BEEN WORKING ON A
LEGISLATION CALL RIGHT TO SET I
DON'T KNOW IF PEOPLE HAVE HEARD
ABOUT RIGHT TO SAY SO THE RIGHT
TO SIT WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
LEGALLY FEDERALLY PROTECTED
UNTIL NINETEEN SEVENTY FIVE AND
IT WAS THE RIGHT FOR PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO SIT DURING THEIR JOB
WHETHER OR NOT YOU HAD A
DISABILITY.
SO THAT MEANS IF YOU'RE WORKING
IN RETAIL YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO
SIT FOR A LITTLE BIT.
THIS HAS BECOME MORE OF AN
ISSUE NOW WITH LIKE FOR EXAMPLE
PEOPLE WORKING AT DRIVE THRU
WINDOWS AND OR STANDING ALL DAY
OR IF YOU'RE WORKING IN RETAIL
AND YOU KNOW THERE'S MANY
PEOPLE WHO MAY NOT HAVE WHAT IS
LEGALLY QUALIFIED AS A
DISABILITY THAT THEY MAY HAVE A
BACK PROBLEM OR SOMETHING ELSE
AND IT'S IT'S AN ISSUE.
RIGHT.
SO CITY BY CITY LIKE PORTLAND
HAS PASSED AN ORDINANCE
PROTECTING THAT.
RIGHT.
AND THAT WOULD GIVE PEOPLE WHO
ARE NOT DISABLED TO THE RIGHT
TO SIT AT SOME POINT WHILE
THEY'RE WORKING AND AS LONG AS
IT DOESN'T INTERFERE WITH THEIR
JOBS THAT SOMETHING HAS TO BE
FIGURED OUT BY THE EMPLOYER.
>> SO ARE WORKING ON TRYING TO
PASS SOMETHING LIKE THAT IN ANN
ARBOR BUT IT IS PREEMPT IT BY
STATE LAW WHICH BASICALLY BARS
MUNICIPALITIES FROM MAKING
CHANGES TO CERTAIN ASPECTS
OF EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR.
SO I'VE TALKED TO UNION AND
I'VE TALKED TO NOW DISABILITY
ADVOCATES AND I'VE SAID YOU
GUYS NEED TO JOIN TOGETHER IN
WHAT YOU'RE ADVOCATING FOR AT
THE LEGISLATURE.
YOU GUYS NEED TO REMIND YOU
THERE'S A BUNCH OF LIKE CASINO
WORKERS COMING TO THE
LEGISLATURE AND OTHER PEOPLE
TRYING TO OVERTURN THIS LAW
THAT PREVENTS LOCAL CITIES FROM
MAKING CHANGES TO EMPLOYMENT
PRACTICES AND RIGHT AND NOW FOR
THE FIRST TIME THEY'RE GOING TO
BE JOINED BY A BUNCH DISABILITY
ADVOCATES WHICH IS REALLY
GREAT.
WE ARE GETTING A LEGAL OPINION
ON THIS TO SEE LIKE IS IT AT
ALL NOT POSSIBLE AGAIN AFTER
THIS IS ACTUALLY BROUGHT TO ME
BY AN ISSUE BY A HAIRDRESSER
WHO WAS HAVING DIFFICULTY
STANDING WAS GETTING IN TROUBLE
AT WORK.
SO I'LL KEEP YOU UPDATED ON
THAT.
I GUESS SOME OF THE NEW THINGS
THAT I'VE BEEN WORKING ON IS
I'M STILL PLANNING TO HAVE A
MEETING WITH HOUSING DEPARTMENT
IN REGARDS TO BUILDING THAT
LIST WHICH DETROIT HAS TO CALL
DETROIT HOME CONNECT AND IT'S
ALL AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
THAT IT'S A PUBLIC SERVER THAT
PEOPLE CAN SEARCH INCLUDING
HOUSING ORGANIZATIONS AND IT
ALSO LISTS THE LEVEL
OF ACCESSIBILITY OF UNIT AND
WHETHER OR NOT, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S A WAIT FOR THAT BECAUSE
WHAT ENDS UP HAPPENING PEOPLE
OFTEN WILL WITH DISABILITIES
WILL CYCLE THROUGH SHELTERS
THAT ARE INACCESSIBLE AND THAT
EXACERBATES THEIR DISABILITY
AND THEN THEY'LL FINALLY GET
PLACED IN HOUSING UNIT AND LIKE
BUT WE DON'T WHEELCHAIR AND
THEY'LL BE STEPS AND THEN THE
WHOLE CYCLE STARTS AGAIN.
>> SO IT'S CALLED DETROIT HOME
CONNECTION.
WE'RE TRYING TO GET ONE IN IN
IOWA OR SOMEONE WORKING ON
THAT.
I'LL REACH OUT TO TRACY'S
OFFICE AS WELL TO SEE IF
THERE'S SOME WAY THAT WE CAN
WORK TOGETHER ON THAT.
THERE IS SOME NEW DEVELOPMENTS
THAT HAVE COME TO MY ATTENTION
THE CITY WHERE WALKABILITY IS
OF COURSE A HUGE PRIORITY AND
REDUCING VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED, YOU KNOW, MAKING LESS
PARKING SPACES AND MAKING LESS
PARKING STRUCTURES AND NEW
DEVELOPMENTS.
BUT I REFERRED SOME DEVELOPERS
TO CONSULT WITH COMPANIES THAT
PROVIDE ACCESSIBLE AUDITS ON
THOSE DEVELOPMENTS TO MAKE SURE
THAT LIKE IT'S GREAT TO HAVE
LESS PARKING SPACES.
BUT ALSO IS THIS GOING TO DETER
PEOPLE OR OLDER ADULTS OR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES OR
MOBILITY DISABILITIES FROM
LIVING IN DC AND WE HAVE LIKE
WHERE'S THE NEAREST BUS STOP?
RIGHT.
AND OUR CITY ONLY ACCESSIBLE
PARKING OR PRIVATELY ACCESSIBLE
PARKING WITHIN A CERTAIN
PROXIMITY THEN THERE OH THE
ACCESSIBILITY IS I'M GLAD TO
HEAR THAT THOSE HAPPEN IN ANN
ARBOR.
SO MY ORGANIZATION DETROIT
DISABILITY HOUR BEGAN THOSE
AUDITS THEY HELPED TO CREATE
THE AUDIT TOOL AND THEY'VE BEEN
DOING IT WITH THE CARTER CENTER
AND WE HAVE I THINK I TOLD YOU
GUYS PREVIOUSLY WE AUDITED ALL
METRO DETROIT LOCATIONS.
WE FOUND THIS IS NOT INCLUDING
URBAN BUT THAT ONLY 16 PERCENT
OF LOCATIONS WERE ACCESSIBLE TO
VOTERS WITH DISABILITIES
WHETHER THEY DIDN'T HAVE
ACCESSIBLE VOTING MACHINES OR
THEY DIDN'T HAVE A DESK AND A
CHAIR THAT WAS WHEELCHAIR
HEIGHT.
THOSE PRIVATE ROLLS AND THEN
WE'RE WORKING WITH CLERKS TO TO
CHANGE.
LUCKILY OUR CLERK IS PRETTY
FANTASTIC AND EVEN THOUGH THE
CITY WASN'T DIRECTLY INVOLVED,
SHE HEARD ABOUT THE EFFORT.
SHE'S BEEN ENGAGING WITH US AND
I'VE BEEN HEARING THAT THEY'RE
ARE ALSO USING A TOOL WHICH I
THINK IS WHAT TRACY WAS
REFERRING TO A SIMILAR TOOL AND
I KNOW THAT DETROIT'S
DISABILITY POWER IS GOING TO BE
COMING IN AUDITING AND OTHERS
AS WELL.
BUT I'LL GIVE YOU A HEADS UP
ABOUT THAT SO THEY COULD BE
MORE COLLABORATIVE AND THEN YOU
KNOW, TODAY I GOT SOME SOME
REQUESTS FROM A CONSTITUENT.
ALEX WAS WAS ON IT ABOUT THE
FEDERAL BUILDING ENTRANCE BEING
ACCESSIBLE AND TRACY CHIMED IN
AND BECAUSE IT'S A FEDERAL
BUILDING, IT'S KIND OF OUT
OF OUR BOUNDS.
BUT JUST TRYING TO NAVIGATE
SOME OF THOSE CONSTITUENCY
ISSUES AND THEN I DON'T WANT TO
TALK TOO MUCH ABOUT THIS NOW
BECAUSE I KNOW CHIEF KENNEDY IS
ON BUT I WOULD LOVE FOR US TO
TALK MORE ABOUT THE THE LEFT
RELATED TO, YOU KNOW, FIRE
SERVICES AND THE FEE THAT MAY
BE INVOLVED.
SO THAT'S IT FOR ME.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE HAS
ANY QUESTIONS.
OUTSTANDING WORK.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER EDWIN
FOR ALL OF THESE UPDATES AND
FOR ALL THE WORK THAT YOU
CONTINUE TO DO NOT ONLY FOR
MAKING SURE BUILDINGS AND YOU
POLLING PLACES ARE ACCESSIBLE
BUT BUT HOLDING EVERYONE
ACCOUNTABLE.
ABSOLUTELY SO THANK YOU.
I DON'T THINK ACTUALLY WE HAVE
ANY OLD BUSINESS RIGHT KENNEDY
NO OLD BUSINESS AT THIS TIME.
THE NEXT PART OF THE MEETING IS
NEW BUSINESS.
IT IS THE ANN ARBOR FIRE
DEPARTMENT DISCUSSION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK CHIEF
KENNEDY FOR HIS PATIENCE TODAY.
SIR, THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING
US, SIR.
THANK YOU FOR THE INVITATION TO
BE HERE.
APPRECIATED THOSE I HAVEN'T MET
MIKE KENNEDY FIRE CHIEF.
>> TRY TO PROVIDE A LITTLE
BACKGROUND BUT ALSO TRY TO BE
BRIEF SO I'M HAPPY TO PROVIDE
ANY FURTHER EXPLANATION.
A YEAR AGO THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
STARTED OPERATING OUR OWN
AMBULANCE SO THAT'S THAT WE DID
THAT IN RESPONSE TO SERVICE
ISSUES FROM HERE ON VALLEY
AMBULANCE NATIONWIDE.
THERE'S A SHORTAGE OF FOUR
PRIVATE ITEMS AND SO WE WERE
DEALING WITH EXTENDED WAIT
TIMES FOR THE CITY OVER THE
LAST YEAR WE'VE SEEN THAT YOU
ESCALATE FAR BEYOND WHAT WE HAD
ANTICIPATED WHICH JUST
REINFORCES THE NEED FOR THAT.
>> OVER THE LAST YEAR WE HAD
NOT BEEN BUILDING RESIDENTS FOR
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT.
DOES THAT MOST OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES DO THAT.
>> IT WAS VERY WE WERE VERY
MUCH A RARITY WHERE WE WEREN'T
BUILDING AND SO WHAT WE'RE KIND
OF STARTED THIS WAS FOR US TO
START BUILDING INSURANCE
COMPANIES WHICH IS REALLY KIND
OF INDUSTRY STANDARD FOR THAT
SINCE WE WERE GOING TO GO
THROUGH THIS PROCESS OF BILLING
THE THE AS THIS THING HAS BEEN
SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN OUT THERE
FOR A WHILE.
>> SO KIND OF AS A MORE AS A
MEASURE OF EFFICIENCY WE ADDED
THE LIFT ASSIST AS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION THERE REALLY TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS.
THE INTENTION IS WHEN THIS GOES
BACK TO COUNCIL TO SPLIT THEM
SO THE AMBULANCE BILLINGS KIND
OF ONE THING AND THEN THE IF
THE SYSTEMS THAN IS THE OTHER
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
>> THE AMBULANCE BILLING THAT'S
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD AND
THAT'S JUST WHERE IF SOMEONE IS
TRANSPORTED BY THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT OPERATED AMBULANCE
THAT WE WOULD BILL INSURANCE
AND AGAIN ANY ANY OTHER
AMBULANCE COMPANY THAT'S VERY
MUCH INDUSTRY BEST PRACTICE
.
SO WE'RE NOT DOING ANYTHING
THAT'S OUT OF ALIGNMENT WITH
THAT IN TERMS OF THE LIST LIFT
ASSIST FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
WE'VE BEEN DEALING WITH REALLY
KIND OF THREE THREE ISSUES THAT
ARE RELATED BUT DISTINCT, TWO
OF WHICH I DON'T KNOW A WHOLE
LOT APPLY TO PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
ONE OF WHICH I THINK THAT
THERE'S THERE MIGHT BE SOME
CONCERN WHICH IS WHY WE'RE HERE
TONIGHT.
THE FIRST IS FOR SKILLED
NURSING FACILITIES.
SO THESE ARE FACILITIES WHERE
THERE ARE SKILLED NURSING
AVAILABLE.
THESE ARE LICENSED FACILITIES
BY THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
PEOPLE ARE PAYING A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF MONEY TO BE AT THESE
FACILITIES AND THESE ARE
OPERATED BY PRIVATE
CORPORATIONS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE WILL
DEAL WITH IS THESE IF A PATIENT
FALLS OUT OF BED OR HAS A HAS A
FALL THAT THE PATIENT DOES NOT
NEED TO GO TO THE HOSPITAL.
THEY'RE NOT INJURED BUT THEY
SIMPLY FELL.
WHAT WE DEAL WITH IS THAT THESE
COMPANIES WILL CALL ON ONE ONE
TO HAVE THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
COME AND LIFT THE PERSON UP AND
PUT THEM BACK IN BED WITH THE
IDEA THAT THEY WOULD RATHER
HAVE THE FIRE SERVICE EMPLOYEES
RISK POTENTIAL INJURY BY
PUTTING THE PERSON INTO BED
VERSUS THEIR OWN EMPLOYEES.
AND A LOT OF THE ISSUE IS THESE
PLACES ARE NOT PROPERLY STAFFED
.
THIS CREATES A VERY BIG ISSUE
BECAUSE THEN WE'RE USING PUBLIC
RESOURCES TO SUBSIDIZE A
PRIVATE CORPORATION SO THAT'S
ONE ISSUE THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
DOING AND AGAIN THAT'S JUST
VERY MUCH IT'S A PRIVATE FOR
PROFIT CORPORATION THAT'S USING
TAX DOLLARS FOR THEIR BUSINESS
.
>> I HAVEN'T HEARD ANY
OPPOSITION TO THAT.
>> SO THAT'S KIND OF PART ONE.
THE SECOND PART IS KIRUNDI.
THE AMBULANCE WILL HAVE
SCHEDULED TRANSPORTS WHERE THIS
IS A PATIENT THAT FOR WHATEVER
REASON THEY'RE NOT AMBULATORY
AND THEY ARE GOING FOR A
SCHEDULED DOCTOR'S APPOINTMENT
.
THIS IS NOT A NINE ONE ONE CALL
THIS IS A THEY'RE GOING FOR
DIALYSIS.
THEY'RE GOING TO SEE THE DOCTOR
FOR WHATEVER REASON.
>> THIS IS A NON AMBULATORY
PATIENT GENERALLY THESE ARE
HEAVIER PATIENTS, BARIATRIC
PATIENTS AND THE AND IN FACT WE
HAD ONE OF THEM EARLIER TODAY.
THE AMBULANCE COMPANY WILL CALL
911.
WE'LL CALL THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AND SAY HEY, WE NEED YOU TO GO
TO THIS RESIDENCE TO HELP LOAD
THIS PATIENT INTO THE AMBULANCE
.
AND SO DURING THAT TIME WE'RE
TAKING A FIRE WE'RE TAKING A
FIRE COMPANY OUT OF SERVICE
FOUR CALLS IN THEIR AREA TO GO
DO THIS AND THEN THREE HOURS
LATER WE'RE GETTING CALLED BACK
TO REVERSE THE PROCESS AND TAKE
THAT PATIENT FROM THE AMBULANCE
BACK INTO THE RESIDENCE.
MY MY ARGUMENT IS AND MY
POSITION IS ON THIS HURON
VALLEY AMBULANCE THIS IS A THIS
IS A FOR PROFIT SERVICE THAT
THEY'RE DOING.
THEY'RE BILLING THE PATIENT FOR
THIS.
THEY SHOULD BE USING THEIR IF
IF MORE PEOPLE ARE REQUIRED TO
DO THIS, THEY SHOULD BE USING
THEIR OWN EMPLOYEES TO DO THIS.
THEY SHOULD BE SENDING
ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL.
THEY ARE MAKING PROFIT OFF
OF THIS AND SO SIMILAR TO A
SKILLED NURSING, I STRONGLY
FEEL THAT HERE I BELIEVE ANYONE
IS USING PUBLIC A PUBLIC FUNDED
SERVICE FOR THEIR FOR PROFIT
BUSINESS MODEL.
>> SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND OF THE
SECOND PART THAT WE ARE TRYING
TO ADDRESS WITH THE LIFT ASSIST
THE THIRD PART IS THE FOUR
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE NOT ENOUGH
SKILLED LIVING NOT IN A SKILLED
NURSING FACILITY, PRIVATE
RESIDENCE WHERE THEY WILL CALL
FOR THEY THEY FALL THEY'RE
UNABLE TO GET BACK UP AND THEY
WILL CALL NINE ONE ONE FOR
ASSISTANCE GETTING BACK UP.
THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE NOT
INJURED.
THEY JUST SIMPLY NEED
ASSISTANCE GETTING BACK UP IF
THEY WERE INJURED AND THEY NEED
MEDICAL TRANSPORT THAT DOESN'T
COUNT AND WE DON'T CALL THOSE
AS LIFT ASSIST.
THAT'S A MEDICAL EMERGENCY.
WE GO WE TRANSPORT THEM TO THE
HOSPITAL AND GET THEM THE CARE
THEY NEED.
WHAT WAS INITIALLY PROPOSED IS
THAT AFTER WE GO TO THE
RESIDENCE FOR THE SEVENTH TIME
IN A 12 MONTH PERIOD THERE
WOULD START TO BE A FEE.
>> THAT FEE WOULD BE TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS.
THE IDEA WITH THAT BEING IS
THIS PERSON IS NOW CALLED NINE
ONE ONE NINE TIMES IN A IN A
CALENDAR YEAR EXCUSE ME IN
FLOATING TWELVE MONTHS AND WE
WE'VE ALREADY BEEN THERE SIX
TIMES.
WE'VE ALREADY ASSISTED THEM SIX
TIMES AND ONCE WE START TO GO
TWO OR THREE TIMES WE START
WORKING REACHING OUT TO ONE
OF NUMEROUS SOCIAL SERVICES.
SO IT'S NOT THAT WE HAVEN'T
DONE THINGS TO HELP THIS
PERSON.
SOMETIMES WE MIGHT REACH OUT TO
ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES.
WE MIGHT REACH OUT TO COUNTY
MENTAL HEALTH.
IT REALLY DEPENDS ON IS AND IS
IT AN ADULT?
IS IT SOMEBODY WITH
DISABILITIES BEFORE WE GET
THERE, WE'RE ALREADY TRYING TO
WORK WITH THIS PERSON CURRENTLY
WE REALLY DON'T HAVE SOMETHING
TO ACT AS A DETERRENT FOR THEM
TO JUST KEEP CALLING US AND
RELYING SOMEONE THAT NEEDS THAT
LEVEL OF CARE.
IT'S MAYBE THEY THEY DO NEED TO
BE IN SOME SORT OF ASSISTED
LIVING FACILITY.
MAYBE THEY NEED SOMEONE TO COME
IN AND CHECK ON THEM.
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A VARIETY
OF THERE'S A VARIETY OF WAYS
THAT THAT PERSON COULD BE
SUPPORTED.
IT'S JUST THE FACT OF AND
GENERALLY ONCE WE KIND OF REACH
THAT SEVEN TIME WORD USUALLY
GOING TWO OR THREE TIMES A WEEK
THIS IS THIS IS BECOMING
SOMEWHAT OF A STRAIN ON OUR
DEPARTMENT JUST FROM FROM A
USED EXCUSE ME A CALL FOR
SERVICE PERSPECTIVE.
>> SO THIS LAST ONE OF THE LEFT
ASSIST AGAIN JUST TO KIND
OF RECAP WITHIN A FLOATING
TWELVE MONTH PERIOD WHAT WAS
PROPOSED IS IS ONE THROUGH SIX
WE GO OUT THERE, THERE'S NO
CHARGE AND AND DURING THAT TIME
WE WOULD HAVE WORKED WITH
SOCIAL SUPPORT SERVICES TO
ASSIST THEM THAT SEVENTH TIME
AND BEYOND WE WOULD START
ASSESSING THE FEE.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER
COMMUNITIES THAT WE RESEARCHED
FOR THIS HONESTLY THIS WAS ONE
OF THE MORE LAX ONES A LOT
OF COMMUNITIES WILL START
CHARGING AFTER TWO OR THREE SO
THIS IS NOT I WANT TO BE VERY
THE INTENT OF THIS IS NOT
REVENUE THE INTENT OF THIS IS
HONESTLY AS A DETERRENT THAT
THIS PERSON PROBABLY NEEDS
ADDITIONAL HELP AND NINE ONE
ONE IS REALLY PROBABLY NOT THE
BEST THING FOR US TO KEEP THIS
PERSON IN THEIR CURRENT LIVING
SITUATION.
SO THAT'S A BRIEF SUMMARY I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
AND AGAIN I APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY.
THANK YOU, CHIEF KENNEDY.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT
EXPLANATION AND ALSO THE
VIEWPOINT FROM YOURSELF AND AND
OTHERS ON THE STAFF.
I DO WANT IT OPEN.
I DO WANT TO OPEN IT UP NOW TO
THE FLOOR FOR SOME DIALOG ON
THIS AND AND SEE IF YOU KNOW
WHAT WE CAN WHAT WE CAN COME UP
WITH HERE ANY AND IT'S OPEN TO
THE FLOOR COUNCIL MEMBER I KNOW
YOU HAD SOME QUESTIONS.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OTHERS DO
BUT I'D LIKE TO OPEN IT UP TO
THE COMMISSIONERS AT THIS TIME
.
THIS IS YOU KNOW, FOR ME I
THINK AND I WOULD LIKE TO MEET
WITH YOU MORE CHIEF KENNEDY
JUST KIND OF UNDERSTAND A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
BUT I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE
SEEMS TO BE A SYSTEM FAILURE
AND THAT THE FINANCIAL COST AND
THE BURDEN IS FALLING UNFAIRLY
KIND OF ON THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
BUT IT JUST SEEMS TO BE AN
ISSUE THAT THE ANIMAL INTO THE
OVERALL SYSTEM HAS TO ADDRESS
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THE THE
RIGHT DECISION HERE IS FOR THE
COST AND THE BURDEN TO FALL ON
THE INDIVIDUAL JUST BECAUSE
INDIVIDUALS, ESPECIALLY THOSE
WITH A DISABILITY AND THOSE WHO
ARE YOU KNOW, AND EITHER
EMOTIONAL DISTRESS OR WHAT IT
MAY BE IT THEY'VE JUST BEEN
SOCIALIZED TO LEARN THAT YOU
CALL NINE ONE ONE IF YOU'RE IN
AN EMERGENCY.
>> SO YEAH, I WOULD LIKE MORE
INFORMATION FROM YOU ABOUT HOW
WE CAN THINK A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENTLY ABOUT THIS BUT
RICHELLE
HAD HER HAND UP BEFORE
I DID.
>> OH, I'M SORRY I I JUST
WANTED TO SAY THAT IN TERMS
OF EVERYTHING THAT YOU SHARED
WITH REGARDS TO THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT BEING CALLED IN TO
ASSIST FOR PROFIT COMPANIES
WITH THEIR ISSUES WITH NEEDING
TO HELP INDIVIDUALS, I
COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THAT.
>> AND AS A PERSON WHO IS A
FOREST THEMSELVES I WOULD HATE
TO THINK THAT ANYONE IN THE
GENERAL PUBLIC WHO HAS TAKEN
THE FALL WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
GET THE ASSISTANCE THAT THEY
NEED IN A TIMELY MANNER BECAUSE
YOU'RE ANSWERING A CALL TO
OFFICER TO A FOR PROFIT
FACILITY THAT OUGHT TO HAVE
STAFF ON HAND.
SO I DO UNDERSTAND THAT I DO
HAVE SOME CONCERNS.
COUNCILWOMAN GHAZI EDWIN SAID I
THINK BEST I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR
SOME MORE EXPLORATORY
DISCUSSION IN TERMS OF THE ONUS
OF THE COST BEING PUT ON TO A
PERSON WHO'S CALLING.
>> BUT I ALSO HEAR THAT IF IT'S
HAPPENING SAY SEVEN TIMES
WITHIN A CALENDAR YEAR PERHAPS
THERE ARE OTHER ISSUES GOING
ON.
>> I'M I'M HEARTENED TO KNOW
THAT YOU'RE NOT JUST LEAVING IT
AT THAT BUT THAT YOU ARE
SEEKING OTHER AVENUES TO HELP
THEM BY LOOKING AT CONTACTING
OTHER AGENCIES THAT MAY BE ABLE
TO ASSIST THAT INDIVIDUAL WITH
WITH STUFF SO SO I'M
REALLY
HEARING A LOT OF HOPE AND A LOT
OF WILLINGNESS OF THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT TO WORK ON THIS AND
I'M EAGER TO HEAR HOW THIS ALL
PLAYS OUT.
OCEANOGRAPHIC.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, CHIEF CHIEF KENNEDY
FOR BEING HERE TODAY.
I THINK I'LL PROBABLY JUST BE
ECHOING WHAT'S BEEN SAID
ALREADY BUT I WOULD BE REALLY
INTERESTED IN FINDING OUT MORE
ABOUT WHAT SORT OF DATA YOU ARE
COLLECTING OR IF YOU'RE
COLLECTING ABLE TO COLLECT ANY
DATA WHEN YOU'RE DOING THESE
LEFTIST CALLS TO FIND OUT WHAT
SORTS OF THINGS CAN BE DONE TO
PREEMPTIVELY PREVENT SOME
OF THESE THINGS FROM HAPPENING
POSSIBLY NOT NECESSARILY AS THE
OWNERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
>> IT'S OTHER COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS AND FOLKS BUT IT
SEEMS LIKE THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THE COMMUNITY
COULD WRAP ITS ARMS AROUND TO
HELP SUPPORT YOU ALL AS WELL AS
TO HELP SUPPORT VULNERABLE
FOLKS IN OUR COMMUNITY FROM
NEEDING LEFT ASSISTANCE AS
OFTEN AS THEY DO IT.
IS THERE DATA THAT YOU ALL
COLLECT THAT IS SHARED TO THE
PUBLIC OR CAN BE SHARED WITH
THE PUBLIC JUST IN THE TERMS
OF REASON FOR CALL THOSE KINDS
OF THINGS?
THE DATA THAT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE IS GOING TO BE PRETTY CASE
BY CASE BASIS AND IT'S JUST
PRETTY MUCH THE PERSON FELL AND
WE ASSISTED THEM BACK UP AND
THERE WASN'T A MEDICAL INJURY
SO SO SOME OF THIS DOES SPEAK
TO THE I DON'T HAVE THAT THAT
DATA SET REALLY DOESN'T EXIST
SO I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
SHARE WITH THAT AND JUST WANT
TO BE UPFRONT ABOUT AT IT.
>> WE WOULD BE ABLE TO RUN
QUERIES ON ADDRESSES AND
PATIENTS AND THAT SORT
OF INFORMATION WE WANT TO BE
ABLE TO SHARE FOR OBVIOUSLY
PERSONAL HEALTH INFORMATION.
BUT IN TERMS OF LIKE WHAT
CAUSED THE LIKE THE MECHANISM
OR OTHER SORTS OF THINGS THAT
IS NOT A DATA SET THAT OUR
CURRENT REPORT SYSTEM CAPTURES,
WOULD IT BE SOMETHING THAT YOU
WOULD CONSIDER CAPTURING THE
REPORTS THAT WE USE OUR
NATIONAL AND SO SO FOR FOR MS
FOR MEDICAL EVENTS IT'S THROUGH
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN AND FOR
FIRE EVENTS IT'S FEDERAL AND SO
THOSE ARE PRETTY STANDARDIZED
FORMS.
IT WOULD IT WOULD BE A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF STAFF
TIME FOR US TO TRY TO CAPTURE
THAT SEPARATELY FROM THE FORMS
THAT WE'RE CURRENTLY USING.
RIGHT.
BHIKU MISSIONER HAWKINS', THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US.
I HAVE TO SAY I ECHO A LOT
OF THE SENTIMENTS FROM
COMMISSIONER BOZAK AND
COMMISSIONER GOZI EDWARDS JUST
BEING A SOCIAL WORKER IN THE
FIELD.
I KNOW THAT IN TERMS OF BILLING
YOU WOULD HAVE TO HIRE SOMEONE
TO DO THE BILLING.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE
APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE FOR THE AMBULANCE
FEES.
SO I I DON'T DISAGREE WITH THE
CONCEPT.
I JUST IN TERMS OF IF THE CITY
CARES ABOUT JUST HAVING THAT BE
A BALANCED BUDGET ITEM PER SAY
THAT IT'S COULD COST YOU MORE
CHASING THE FEES TO GET TO HAVE
A PERSON WHO CAN BUILD THE
INSURANCE AND MANAGE ALL THOSE
FINANCIAL CONCERNS AS WELL.
SO JUST FOOD FOR THOUGHT
COMMISSIONER WAS I THINK YOU
JUST ONE QUICK QUESTION WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING WITH OTHER
COMMUNITIES ABOUT OPTIONS, HAVE
YOU GOTTEN ANY INFORMATION OR
FEEDBACK ON IF A FEE IS
IMPOSED?
ARE COMMUNITIES FINDING THAT
PEOPLE ARE NOT CALLING FOR LYFT
ASSETS WHEN THEY REALLY SHOULD
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO
ENCOUNTER IF I'M TALKING FROM
PRIVATE RESIDENTS NOT FROM THE
CARE FACILITIES AND LEADING TO
MORE EXPENSIVE THEN TRIPS TO
THE E.R. AND AND THINGS THAT
COULD HAVE POTENTIALLY BEEN
AVOIDED BY HAVING THE LYFT
ASSIST THOSE QUESTIONS WERE
ANSWERED WERE NOT MS.
THAT WAS NOT PART OF OUR REVIEW
WAS REALLY KIND OF LOOKING AT
FEE STRUCTURES OF WHAT OTHER
COMMUNITIES ARE DOING.
I WOULD WE WOULDN'T HAVE THAT
DATA SET AND I WOULD I WOULD
DOUBT OTHER COMMUNITIES.
I COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND THE
QUESTION THAT'S NOT A DATA SET
WE HAVE AND I DOUBT OTHERS
WOULD BE ABLE TO PROVIDE THAT
EITHER.
BUT I ABSOLUTELY UNDERSTAND THE
QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
YOUR POSTER.
YES, I WANTED TO I WANT TO JUST
SAY THAT I USE PAICE WHICH USES
THE HUON VALLEY VEHICLES AND AS
FAR AS I KNOW IT'S A NON PROFIT
BUT MAY THEY DO THE AMBULANCE
WHEN I USE THE AMBULANCE THEY
DO CHARGE ME UNDER HERE IN
VALLEY AMBULANCE BUT I USE THE
PACE VEHICLES WHICH IS HAS THE
AMBULANCE SYMBOLS ON EVERYTHING
BUT I'M GOING TO AND FROM
POLICE BUT THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
VEHICLES BUT IT'S IN IT SAYS H
THE IS A PROFIT.
>> I ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WAS A A
NON PROFIT JUST MEANS THAT
THERE'S NOT SHAREHOLDERS SO
H.V. IS A VERY PRIVATE NON
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY OK THAT
MAKES REVENUE SO PACE IS PAID
FOR THROUGH A VARIETY
OF SOURCES ALSO USER FEES BUT
HVA YEAH THAT NON PROFIT JUST
MEANS THERE'S NOT THERE'S NOT
SHAREHOLDERS THAT BASICALLY GET
PROFIT SHARING FROM THAT BUT
THEY'RE VERY VERY CORPORATION
THAT IS REVENUE AND THEY'RE NON
GOVERNMENTAL AND THERE IS A LOT
OF PUBLIC CONFUSION OVER WHAT
HP IS AND WHAT HP IS NOT.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
SO REMEMBER GHAZI ONE HI THIS
IS ONE THING I WANTED TO ASK
YOU, CANDY WAS WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT DATA COLLECTION A SECOND
AGO.
DO YOU HAVE DATA ABOUT WHAT
PROPORTION OF THESE LIFTOFFS
THIS CALLS HAVE CALLED LIKE
MORE THAN SIX TIMES LIKE WHAT I
THINK THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL
JUST TO UNDERSTAND LIKE THE WHY
OF THE SIX RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
THE SIX WAS HONESTLY JUST KIND
OF A OF A JUDGMENT IN TERMS
OF AGAIN A LOT OF OTHER
COMMUNITIES WERE MUCH LOWER AND
THIS TENDS TO BE KIND OF A OF A
SMALL SUPER USER GROUP WHERE
WE'RE NOT TALKING A LOT
OF PEOPLE BUT IT'S A SMALL
NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
CAUSING A KIND OF A
DISPROPORTIONATE CALLS FOR
SERVICE.
SO WE I'D BE ABLE TO PULL THAT
DATA THAT THAT'S GOING TO TAKE
SOME TIME.
I DON'T HAVE THAT DIRECTLY
AVAILABLE.
ONE OF THE THINGS ONE OF THE
MEMBERS THAT IT ASKED ABOUT
KIND OF THE THE COLLECTION
OF THIS FOR AMBULANCE FEES WE
ACTUALLY MOST DEPARTMENTS
INCLUDED WITH THAT WE'RE
CONTRACTED WITH A THIRD PARTY
INSURER SPILLAR.
SO THAT'S THAT'S HOW WE'RE
WE'RE HANDLING THE COLLECTION
OF THE THE AMBULANCE FEES, THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT ALREADY DOES
OTHER FEES FOR FOR FIRE
INSPECTIONS AND FALSE ALARMS.
SO WE KIND OF DO HAVE A PROCESS
IN PLACE FOR THIS IN TERMS
OF GETTING THIS IS NOT A THIS
IS NOT A REVENUE THING AND SO
THIS WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT
KIND FROM FROM HEARING SOME
FEEDBACK THAT I VERY ARE
THINKING LIKE WE KIND OF TABLE
THIS IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE
THERE'S OPPOSITION TO THE OTHER
TWO AND IF I WERE TO KIND
OF PRIORITIZE THEM THIS IS A
VERY DISTANT THIRD THE
SCHEDULED TRANSPORTS ARE A BIG
ISSUE FOR US AND GOING TO THE
ASSISTED LIVINGS THAT'S MUCH
MORE OF AN ISSUE.
IT WAS IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
THIS DISCUSSION THAT'S WHY IT
WAS INCLUDED.
I THINK WHAT IT JUST REALLY
DOES IS IT WILL KIND OF DOUBLE
DOWN OUR ATTEMPTS WITH THE
SUPER USER GROUP TO GET THEM
THE SOCIAL SERVICE THAT THEY
NEED AND MORE PURSUE THAT ROUTE
AND JUST KIND OF DROP THE LIFT
ASSIST.
AND IF I FIND THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT CONTINUES TO
MANIFEST ITSELF, THEN WE CAN
KIND OF COME BACK AND ADDRESS
SOME OF AT FOR FROM TIME
COLLECTING THE FIRST TWO.
IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE IT SOUNDS
LIKE I MIGHT HAVE SOME MORE
SUPPORT OR SOME UNDERSTANDING
WHERE WE'RE COMING FROM WITH
THAT BUT YEAH.
AND THE LAST THING I WANT TO DO
IS I MEAN THIS IS NOT MEANT TO
GO AFTER ANY SEGMENT OF THE
COMMUNITY.
THIS WAS JUST THIS WAS TRYING
TO JUST BE A DETERRENT.
>> THIS IS TRYING TO BE A SOFT
DETERRENT.
BUT I'M HAPPY TO PURSUE SOME
OTHER AVENUES WHICH IT SOUNDS
LIKE WHAT I'M HEARING.
>> SO YEAH.
AND SOME OF THEM ARE AND YOU
KNOW, FOR ME I DEFINITELY
UNDERSTAND THE REASONS.
WHAT I WANTED TO KNOW WAS LIKE
IS THIS A HUGE POPULATION
OF FOLKS THAT IS DOING THIS
LIKE OTHER A BUNCH OF USERS
DOING THIS.
SO THAT'S HELPFUL THAT TO KNOW
THAT IT'S A SMALL MINORITY.
>> BUT I THINK OVERALL WE KNOW
THAT PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES I
MEAN THEY ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY IN POVERTY
AND EMPLOYEE JUST BECAUSE
OF FATALISM.
RIGHT.
AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT COSTS
WITH HEALTH CARE DETER PEOPLE
FROM GETTING CARE.
THAT'S BASICALLY OUR ENTIRE
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
>> SO I DO FEAR THAT SOME
PEOPLE WOULD THEY WOULD HEAR
ABOUT A FINE THEY WOULD HEAR
ABOUT A FEE AND THEY'D BE LIKE
DON'T CALL.
>> AND THEN EVERYTHING WOULD
GET A LOT WORSE
.
AND ALSO, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT PROVIDING SOME
SORT OF SERVICES AFTER THE
SIXTH CALL.
I MEAN THAT ALSO WOULD REQUIRE
SOME RESOURCES RIGHT, TO
PROVIDE SERVICES TO THE PERSON
TO HELP THEM IDENTIFY MAYBE ONE
OF THOSE THEY COULD GET.
>> SO YEAH, I'M GLAD TO HEAR
THAT YOU'RE LEANING MORE
TOWARDS THE OTHER TWO.
I'D LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THE
OTHER TWO AS WELL AND MAYBE WE
CAN MEET ABOUT THAT OFFLINE AND
YOU KNOW, ACTUALLY ONE LAST
SHIFTING SOME OF THE COSTS AND
RESOURCES AND ALL IS POSSIBLE
OR THE EXACT ARRANGEMENT WITH
HERE ON THE VALLEY.
BUT IT'S PART OF MAYBE YOU YOU
HAVE WITH THEM SAYING LIKE IF
YOU ASK US TO DO THIS OVER THIS
NUMBER OF TIMES YOU PAY US MORE
.
DO THEY?
IS THAT HOW IT WORKS?
THEY PAY THE CITY WE THEY'RE
THERE IS NOT A CONTRACT WITH
YOUR UNVALUABLE WHICH IS A MUCH
LARGER POLITICAL DISCUSSION AND
IS ONE THAT'S A VERY IT'S A
PRETTY BIG PAIN POINT FOR US
AND I'M THAT'S KIND PROBABLY
ABSCISSION OUTSIDE OF THIS
GROUP.
BUT THE FACT IS WE DON'T HAVE A
CONTRACT WITH THEM IS ALSO
PROBLEMATIC ON A BUNCH
OF LEVELS.
>> THEY DON'T HAVE A CONTRACT
WITH ANY OTHER COMMUNITY IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
IT IS VERY IS INCREDIBLY RARE
THAT A MUNICIPALITY HAS AN
AMBULANCE SERVICE OPERATING
WITHIN ITS GEOGRAPHIC BORDERS
WITHOUT ANY SERVICE LEVEL
AGREEMENT.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF LAYERS TO
THIS THAT WE WE COULD GO DOWN
SOME OTHER RABBIT HOLE PRETTY
QUICKLY.
>> SO ALL RIGHT.
OK, I'LL TOUCH BASE WITH YOU
OFFLINE.
OK, BUT YEAH, SOUNDS LIKE THAT
MIGHT BE PART OF THE REASON WHY
YOU PASSING IT ON TO THE
CONSUMER THE USER WAS SEEN AS A
VIABLE OPTION BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THERE'S A
SYSTEM TO HOLD ACCOUNTABLE IN
THE WAYS WE NEED THEM TO BE.
SO I'LL TOUCH BASE WITH YOUR
FRIEND HERE.
>> SOLOMON.
I JUST WANTED TO TAKE A STEP
BACK ONE TO THANK CHIEF KENNEDY
FOR SPEAKING TO US AND JUST TO
COMMENT IN MY EXPERIENCE ON
THIS COMMISSION, THIS FEELS
LIKE ONE OF THE FEW TIMES WHEN
SOMEONE HAS COME TO US FROM A
CITY ENTITY AS LISTEN TO WHAT
WE HAD TO OFFER AND SEEM TO BE
TAKING THE FEEDBACK ON BOARD.
SO TO ME THAT WAS A STRIKING
DIFFERENCE AND SOME OF THE
OTHER PRESENTATIONS WE'VE
RECEIVED AND I JUST WANT TO
COMMENT ON THAT AND HOPE THAT
THERE'LL BE MORE OF THAT KIND
OF ROBUST FEEDBACK, ACTIVE
LISTENING GOING ON IN FUTURE
CONSULTATIONS WITH CITY
ENTITIES AND I THINK YEAH, MUCH
APPRECIATION TO THE CHIEF.
THANK YOU.
LAST BUT NOT LEAST COMMISSIONER
PACKARD.
SO I DO APPRECIATE THAT YOU'RE
DISCUSSING THIS AND BRINGING
THIS TO LIGHT.
IT WOULD BE INTERESTING TO KNOW
HOW MUCH PUBLIC PUBLIC DOLLARS
ARE USED WITH REGARD TO THAT
ISSUE OF PRIVATE COMPANIES
CALLING FOR HELP AND JUST
ECHOING THAT OF COURSE YOU
WOULD NOT WANT ANYONE TO EVER
BE AFRAID TO CALL FOR HELP IF
NECESSARY.
SO JUST FASCINATED IN WHAT YOU
ARE ABLE TO FIND OUT AND
MENTIONING ASSISTED LIVING
CENTERS, DO YOU THINK I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU CAN ANSWER THIS
JUST I WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
CLEAR.
DO YOU THINK A NEED FOR THERE
THAT THOSE CENTERS OR A LACK
OF TRAINING OR ANYTHING THAT
COULD BE DONE TO HELP PREVENT
IT FROM BEING, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING THAT CONTINUES
WITHOUT YOU KNOW, IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT THAT'S CAUSING
THOSE TYPES OF IT'S ALL IT'S
ALL OF THE ABOVE SOME OF WHICH
IS A DELIBERATE CORPORATE
POLICY BY THEM.
AND I JUST THE THE AMOUNT THAT
THESE PLACES CHARGE FOR A
PERSON TO BE THERE AND THEN
THEY'RE THEY'RE CALLING NINE
ONE ONE TO DO THIS IS I JUST I
IT'S AND THEY DO IT BECAUSE
THEY CAN AND THAT'S AND THAT'S
JUST THEY'VE DONE IT BECAUSE
THEY CAN I DON'T BLAME THE
STAFF BECAUSE GENERALLY THE
STAFF IS BEING TOLD BY THEIR
CORPORATION TO DO THIS AND THE
REALITY OF IT IS WOOLSTOCK
CONTINUE TO DO IT IF YOU WANT
US TO DO IT WE'RE GOING TO COME
BUT WE'RE GOING PAY FOR IT
BECAUSE YOU'RE CHARGING THE
RESIDENT TO BE THERE BECAUSE
YOU TOLD THAT YOU TOLD THAT
PATIENT THAT YOU WOULD TAKE
CARE OF THEM AND THEY'RE NOT SO
LATE CREDIT TO UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL.
WE DON'T GO OVER TO U OF M IF
SOMEBODY FELL OUT OF BED THEY
ARE INAPPROPRIATELY STAFFED
LICENSED HEALTH CARE FACILITY.
THIS IS NOT A UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HOSPITAL PROBABLY
WE'VE NEVER BEEN THERE.
>> WE'RE LIVE THERE.
THERE'S A THERE'S ABOUT A DOZEN
LICENSED FACILITIES IN THE CITY
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT.
THESE ARE SKILLED TWENTY FOUR
SEVEN SKILLED NURSING HOMES.
THIS IS NOT SENIOR APARTMENTS.
THIS ISN'T CRANBROOK OR MILLER
OR ANYWHERE ELSE.
THESE ARE YOU HAVE YOU HAVE
SKILLED REGISTERED WITH THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN AS A LICENSED
HEALTH CARE FACILITY THAT
THAT'S WHAT THANK YOU.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS.
I KNOW YOU HAVE A QUESTION BUT
I'M SO SORRY WE'RE WE'RE
REALLY, REALLY SHORT ON TIME.
>> IT WAS JUST A THANK YOU TO
ECHO WHAT COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
SAID THAT THIS WAS A REALLY
PRODUCTIVE CONVERSATION AND
WE'D LOVE TO HAVE YOU BACK TO
HAVE A FURTHER ONGOING
CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS.
SO THANK YOU FOR REALLY SHOWING
UP AND LISTENING AND TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND MY PERSPECTIVE AS
WELL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, MR. HAWKINS.
I DO APPRECIATE AND KENNEDY YOU
KNOW, I ECHO THE YOU KNOW, THE
MAJORITY OF OUR COMMISSION AS
WELL AS OUR COUNCIL MEMBER I
WOULD LOVE TO CONTINUE TO
DIALOG WITH YOU SO THAT WE CAN
FIND A SOLUTION TO THIS.
OBVIOUSLY AS YOU SAID, YOU KNOW
OTHER POINTS NOT SO MUCH.
IT'S MORE OF , YOU KNOW, THAT
SPECIFIC ISSUE THAT WE WERE
SPEAKING ABOUT.
SO I APPRECIATE YOU BRINGING
THAT TO THE FOREFRONT TO ALL
OF THE COMMISSION TODAY AND
PLEASE I HOPE THAT AND PLEASE I
HOPE THAT YOU CAN KEEP MYSELF
OUR COUNCIL MEMBER IN OUR
COMMISSION NOT INVOLVED IN THIS
PROCESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON.
KENNEDY DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS FOR TODAY FROM
HAVE A LITTLE BIT OH SORRY.
>> I HAVE SOME NEW BUSINESS BUT
I KNOW THAT WE'RE RUNNING OUT
OF TIME.
I WONDER IF WE SHOULD MAYBE PUT
IT FORWARD TO THE NEXT MEETING
.
YES.
IF YOU CAN LET MYSELF IN
KENNEDY KNOW WHAT THAT NEW
BUSINESS IS.
WE WILL ADD IT TO THE AGENDA
FOR MARCH.
THANK.
AT THIS TIME THERE WAS NO
COMMUNICATION IF THERE'S ANY
COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS, IF YOU COULD
PLEASE JUST RAISE YOUR HAND IF
THERE ARE NONE HAVE NO
COMMUNICATIONS.
THANK YOU AND I APPRECIATE
EVERYONE'S CONTRIBUTIONS TODAY
.
I DO APOLOGIZE BUT I WANT TO BE
JUST COGNIZANT OF TIME SO I
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN.
THIS IS KATHLEEN.
I WILL SECOND OK SO ALL IN
FAVOR OF ADJOURNING TODAY'S
MEETING AT SIX O'CLOCK ON
FEBRUARY TWENTY FOUR FIRST
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I I
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU EVERYONE.
WE ARE OFFICIALLY ADJOURNED AND
AGAIN I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE COMMUNITY STOPPED IN ALSO
CHIEF KENNEDY FOR ALL OF HIS
TIME TODAY.
THANK YOU, CHIEF.
WE DO APPRECIATE IT AND WE LOOK
FORWARD TO COLLABORATING IN THE
FUTURE.
THANK YOU EVERYONE